

March 19, 1938

MEMORANDUM ON NEWSPAPERS

I. Preservation and Utilization of American Newspaper Files.

The record of our culture contained in our newspaper files is
more nearly complete than any other single type of record. The news~
paper files of the country contain more words than all the printed
books in the Library of Congress, and there is no guide to their sub~
ject matter. They are at once the bulkiest, the rarest, the most
inaccessible, and the most impermanent of our library holdings. If
they disappear by reason of the fact that they are printed on highly
perishable paper, the whole period of American history from the Civil
War to the Depression will become a kind of Dark Ages for historical
research.

There are three things to be done:

(1) To copy newspapers that are now on perishable paper on to
durable micro-film, as otherwise they will vanish;

(2) To make the information in the newspapers more readily ac~
cessible by some kind of an appropriate index, as otherwise the coun~
try will not get full value from its newspaper files;

(3) To establish among libraries the practice that they will
make inter-library loans of film copies of newspaper volumes, as in
this way the information in the files will become accessible every~
where in the country.

Where are resources to be found to carry out this program?

(1) Preservation of a newspaper file should be an interest of
the community of which the file constitutes a record, of the newspaper
publishers or their successors, and of the scholarly interest both
local and national.

(2) Indexing or otherwise controlling the contents of newspapers
is a task calling for a large amount of carefully-disciplined clerical
labor. If the right techniques of standards and procedures are est~
ablished, the supply of this labor can come from the works program.

(3) The practice of inter-library lending of film coples of news~
Papers will be in the interest of the libraries, since it will enable
any of them to make available to its own readers any newspaper file
even from another locality. The objects for which newspapers are con~
sulted are such that no library can afford to acquire, either in film
or on paper, all the files which its clientele might seek to consult.
The establishment of this practice should be the contribution of the
library.

An adequate newspaper program therefore calls for the coordina~
tion of the local interest, the national scholarly interest, the in~
terest of the relief program, and the library interest in promoting
national cultural welfare.

At the last annual meeting of the Joint Committee on Materials
for Research, held in January, 1938, the outlines of a concrete pro~
posal were sketched as follows.

(1) An effort to promote the micro-copying of newspaper files
should be undertaken by a non-profit agency, probably the American
Documentation Institute, operating with money to be obtained from one
of the Foundations. The ADI should offer to any community the loan
of photographic equipment for copying its local newspaper files, and
should make available film processing services at cost. In cases
where the locality did not possess a complete file of its own news~
papers but where the gaps in the file could be filled by micro-copying
files available elsewhere, the ADI should render this service. The
service should be made available to the commmity on condition that
some agency within the commnity should contribute the film and labor
for collating and photographing the file.

(2) This micro-copying enterprise should normally be undertaken
in communities which, as a part of their share in the work relief
program, find sponsorship for an appropriately-planned indexing project,
the procedure and standards for which would be worked out by studying
the experience of newspaper indexing activities both within the relief
program and outside it.

(3) An arrangement should be made by which, through the lending of
micro-copies of newspapers, the micro-copied file together with the
index would be made available anywhere in the nation, and thus added
not only to the local but also to the national cultural resources.

In order to give this general program the form of a concrete de~
tailed project, plans must be made in two areas: first, in regard to
equipment, administration and operation of micro-copying itself, to~
gether with estimates of costs, to the end that a budget could be pre~
pared for presentation to a Foundation and that cost estimates might
be presented to local interests; second, in respect to detailed and
adequate working procedures for the indexing of newspaper files, to~
gether with enforcible standards of quality in the work and practical
estimates of costs of the work, all within the framework of the relief
program.


II. Technical Problems involved in Micro-copying Newspaper Files
      

The Bureau of Standards has shown that cellulose acetate safety
film, properly processed, is permanent. The Eastman Company, in
micro-copying current numbers of fifty newspapers, has shown that 18-
diameter reduction of newspapers to 35mm. film is practical. The
Eastman Company has equipment for copying bound files. Other types of
equipment are available also.

Arrangements for photographing must guarantee accurate work in
respect of fineness of focus and uniformity of density resulting from
exposure. Arrangements for processing must guarantee adequate fixing
and washing, and the product of the micro-copying enterprise must be
a strip of negative film from which positives can be made by continu~
ous process equipment.

The tentative budget to be presented to a Foundation should fill
in the following figures:

(1) Cost of camera equipment, with subdsidiary testing apparatus,
for use in the localities in photographing the files; cost of shipping
this equipment from point to point.

(2) Cost of setting up adequate centralized processing plant in
the American Documentation Institute.

(3) Overhead costs


(4) Costs of copying to fill gaps in file. (Responsibility as~
sumed by the ADI in procuring film copies of missing numbers of news~
papers should not be unlimited. The appropriate limitation might be
a percentage of the total number of pages, the copying of which is
financed, or a limitation to such newspapers as happen to be available
in Washington, D.C.)




The tentative budget to be presented to a community should fill
in the following figures:

(1) Cost of film and materials per 1000 pages of newspaper

(2) Labor cost of photographing 1000 pages of newspaper with
equipment described above

(3) Cost of collating files depends so much upon local circum~
stances that it cannot be estimated by any uniform rule, though cer~
tain principles for its estimation might be laid down.

When these figures are filled in, concrete proposals can be pre~sented to the Foundations and to the communities.


III. Compilation of Index, Guide, Calendar, Digest, or other type of
      

        Control to the Contents of the Newspaper File
      

We know from experience that relief labor can render newspaper
files more useful to the public. We do not know what specific use of
relief labor will give us maximum yield in value for lowest cost.
We can discover this relationship only by a careful examination of the
values and uses of newspaper guides, indexes, and digests, and of the
costs incurred in their compilation. Value depends on the number and
character of the uses to which the index or guide is put, and the
number of people to whom it is accessible. Accessibility can be en~
visaged at three levels: (1) the existence of a unique card file;
(2) a micro-copied index along with the micro-copied file itself;
(3) an index multiplied in book form to be used independently of the
micro-copied newspaper in some cases, and to be supported by consult~
ing the micro-copied newspaper in other cases.

A. Determining the Right Principles of Indexing.

The character of the indexing operation that will yield the high~
est utility per unit of cost will not be the same under these three
conditions of availability. What are the alternative characteristics
of newspaper indexing, and how are they related to the conditions of
availability of copies of the newspapers on the one hand, and of the
index on the other?

The appropriate features of a newspaper index for each of these
situations cannot be determined without careful investigation of values
and costs. Such an investigation might be made by carrying out simul~
taneously the following steps:

(1) Study samples of the product of a number of newspaper index~
ing projects that have been operated by WPA. The study should bring
out a comparison of

a) The rules made for the selection of items in tho news~
papers for indexing, and their application

b) The rules made for the classifying of the index, and their
application

c) The number of index entries made and the number of news~
paper pages covered

d) The experience of the project in relation to training,
experimental wastes, supervisioni, classification of workers, etc.

e) The utility of the index as completed, if the project
has reached that point

f) A sample run of a few pages of the index, made from
each of hte different types, might be mimeographed for comparison and
study.


(2) If there are types of indexing not represented by this ex~
perience, short experiments covering a few days or weeks of nowspaper
files should be made to illustrate alternative possibilities.

(3) Study values and utilities of existing indexes from the stand~
point of those whose experience with indexed and unindexed newspapers
qualifies them to judge as experts, notably

a) Library reference
b) Historical research
c) Legal use by attorneys
d) Genealogical use
e) Journalistic use
f) Governmental use
g) Business use

A group of individuals able and willing to give expert opinion
should be found; they should be induced to devote the requisite thought
and study to the material collected and organized under (1) and (2)
above. They should then be called to a conference to advise with WPA
on the writing of standard procedures.

Some of the alternative principles of indexing and a statement
of considerations bearing upon their relative values are annexed
hereto as a supplementary memorandum.

B. Determining tha Right Principles of Administration, and the Place
      

        of thie kind of Project in the Works Program.

Newspaper indexing is a task almost unlimited quantitatively.
Every year of every newspaper indexed is nonetheless a valuable unit
in itself. The value increases as the number of years covered brings
the whole newspaper record under control. But it is probably wise to
think of this work as a long-term job, a continuing responsibility of
any works program, wiich will in a sense build up library resources,
even as certain other types of project, notably in the adult education
field, intensify the use of existing library resources.

It might be advisable, therefore, from the standpoint of the
works program, to think of newspaper indexing in terms of projects of
moderate size, subject to indefinite continuation and to possible ex~
pansion when the need for additional relief projects appears, and to
contraction when the relief load is light, but to be maintained con~
stantly in operation when they are meeting the standards of performance
and cost percent of work.

It would be advantageous to devise a working procedure calling
for most of the labor in the clerical rather than the professional
clascifications. Since the skill in this work develops with experi~
ence, it may be especially suitable for the older type of employable
clerical worker, whose prospect of getting into private industry is low.


        This feature of a newspaper indexing project in WPA policy may
run into difficulties in connection with the object outlined a Sec~
tion II, -- the micro-copying of whole newspaper flles, -- for the cost
incurred in micro-copying the whole file is large in comparison with
      
the cost of indexing a part of it. 

Perhaps the situation could be met by permitting sponsors to have
projects  approved if they agree to micro-copy their files as fast as
the WPA indexes them. In this case the community might not have re~
course to the loaned equipment. The decision of this question must
await the compilation of specific cost figures and estimates for all
operations, both of indexing and micro-copying, in units of thousands
of pages of newspaper files.

C. Units for Cost Estimates
      

The introduction of woodpulp paper in the period from 1860-1880
led to a great increase in the bulk of newspapers. The ratio of ad-
vertising to news seems to have stood fairly constant throughout.
Because the bulk of newspaper material is in the period since 1900,
the total number of pages and of column inches in any newspaper file
in any city is of the same order of magnitude with the mumber of pages
in another city of the same size.

A unit can be taken as a four-page paper, appearing every day
for a year, making 1460 pages, 250,000 column inches, reducible to
180 feet of 35mm. film. A fourteen-year file of a four-page weekly
paper of half-size would equal one such unit.

Cleveland figures for one file of a newspaper from 1819 to 1935
are probably normal for a city of this size.

Years | Period | Units
17 | 1819 - 1835 | 2
14 | 1836 - 1849 | 12
10 | 1850 - 1859 | 10
10 | 1860 - 1869 | 11 
10 | 1870 - 1879 | 13
10 | 1880 - 1889 | 14
10 | 1890 - 1699 | 21
10 | 1900 - 1909 | 21
10 | 1920 - 1919 | 41
10 | 1920 - 1929 | 116
5 | 1930 - 1935 | 58
———
| | 319


        Annex: Considerations bearing upon Principles to be Applied in
      

        Newspaper Indexing
      

A. Completeness of Entry.

An index may be so compiled that it renders consultation of
the original newspaper unnecessary for some purposes. In some cases
the newspaper index will take the research directly to a public
record, by-passing the file. The number of uses for which the in~
dex is a substitute for the original file depends upon the complete~
ness of indexing entries. An index that is to be multiplied in book
form, and hence be available where micro-copies of the newspaper are
not immediately at hand, should have greater completeness of entries
than an index that is to be available only in coincidence with the
original newspaper.

An extreme of competeness is the Bulletin Periodique de la
      

        Press Étrangère, issued by the French Ministry of War during the
World War, and the Daily Review of the Foreign Press, issued by the
Government in the same period. These treat a limited range
of subjects (political) so completely that reference to the original
files is unnecessary. Of less completeness of entry, and greater
comprehensiveness, is the Cleveland Newspaper Digest, a W.P.A. pro~
duct. Still less complete in entries, and still more comprehensive
in the classes of entries covered, is the New York Times Index. The
minimum completeness of entry is an index to proper names, as of
persons, societies, government units, buildings, places.

 B. The Local Reference Principle applied to include Out-of-Town
      

        News from the "West."
      

The newspaper file, without any index, will answer the refer~
ence question, "What did the newspapers of St. Paul record as having
happened in St. Paul on such and such a date?" They will not answer
the question, “What did the newspapers of New York record as having
happened in St. Paul?" In the earlier period of our history much
news of local events in Western states was published only in the
Eastern newspapers. Some Western historical societies have under~
taken to search certain newspaper files for these "Western letters."

It would therefore be useful to have indexes of Eastern news~
papers prior to some date, such as 1880, note items originating in
Western localities, and classify then by place and date. Perhaps
these index notes could then be cleared through to the locality
interested, though that is a separate question.

C. The Principle of the Exclusion of National and Foreign News
      

It can be assumed that all newspapers will duplicate each other
in their accounts of events that are national in charactor as being

acts of the National Government, speeches in Congress, etc.; that
the same will be true of foreign news; and that American newspapers
do not constitute the best source of information about events taking
place abroad. In general, for this reason, it might be considered
inadvisable to include in an index newspaper items of national
news and of foreign news. (National news takes about 13%, foreign
news about 3%, state news 8% of newspaper space.)

On the other hand, the proposal has been made that a serious
effort should be made to collect from the newspapers items relating
to Lincoln. If these items were found as a part of state news in
Illinois papers, they would also collect themselves in  a proper names
index; they would also collect themselves indirectly in the Eastern
papers under the rule that events in the West would be indexed by
locality of origin.

D. Proper Names and Subject Index
      

A proper names index requires far less professional skill for
its compilation than a subject index. One half of the New York

        Times Index is made up of proper names entries on marriages andd
deaths.

Some subjects can be traced through proper names as soon as a
clue is found. For instance, most of the items on music, theatre,
and entertainment revealed in the Cleveland Newspaper Digest under
these heads would be traceable through the proper names of Melodeon
Hall, Public Library, etc. A story can be followed conveniently
through a period of time through the names of the persons involved.

Subject classifications are so much a matter of choice that
their value diminishes to the degree that the index, by skeleton-
izing the entry, makes it difficult for the user of the index to
be sure that his interpretation of the subject agrees with that of
the Indexer. It is possible, however, to select certain specific
subjects which for some special reason are of moment, and to bring
out all items relating to these subjects. The smaller this list,
and the more definite the subject headings in their relation to the
actual form of the newspaper stories, the more successful will be
the work.

A newspaper index which is to be multiplied in book form, and
hence develop each item with relative completeness, can be more
accurately and usefully given subject classification than an index
that is to be micro-copied and used only with the copy of the news~
paper itself.




