

November 6, 1937

MEMORANDUM ON UNION CATALOGUES


The number of enterprises in union catalogue work has greatly in~
creased available information as to the place of the union catalogue
system in the research resources of this country. The possible function
of union catalogues in the national library system is being altered not
only by the development of micro-copying in lieu of lending of books,
periodical articles, etc. controlled in a union catalogue, but by pos~
sible inexpensive micro-copying of the union catalogues themselves.
Estimates of prices at which micro-copies of union catalogues could be
distributed go as low as $50.00 per one million entries. The possibil~
ity appears, moreover, that the full subject catalogues of certain great
libraries may be placed on film and become available as a bibliographical
and library tool to other libraries.


In the strategic development of the union catalogue, an issue is
arising between (1) concentration of all energy on completion of the
national union catalogue as a catalogue of rare books, and (2) development
of regional catalogues to increase the efficiency in the expenditure of
acquisition funds regionally, and to constitute the base from which the
national union catalogue will be completed. A project to copy the depos~
itory catalogue of the Library of Congress on film and possibly to follow
it with the national union catalogue on film will affect the ways of main~
taining a current flow of cards into the national wnion catalogue. Checks
that have been made between the Philadelphia and Cleveland union catalogues
and the national union catalogue have provided figures on the percentage
of overlapping duplication and unique holdings of our libraries. Dr.
Kletsch had compiled a list of special collections through the country
which he had thought suitable for incorporation in the union catalogue.

When this situation is examined as a whole, one feature stands out
very clearly in it, and that is that it is now possible to make quantita~
tive estimates of the amount of union cataloguing that could be done, and
the cost of doing it, with an accuracy that would not have been possible a
short time ago. We can estimate far more accurately then has ever before
been estimated the number of items that would be incorporated in a complete
national catalogue, the probable yield of new items that would result from
various types of union cataloguing activity, and the balance of cost and
utility that would be involved in following different plans.

In view of this situation should we not place on the agenda for the
next meeting of the Joint Committee the question of whether a well-defined

        quantitative study of the union catalogue problem in the country should be
undertaken? Any action along this line would, of course, be tied up with
and partly should be directed by the Resources Committee of the American
Library Association.

Robert C. Binkley
Chairman


