


        MEMORANDUM ON THE MAKING OF BOOKS AS PART OF WPA PROJECTS
      

A commercial book manufacturing business has never entered and
cannot enter the domain of small-edition publishing, where 50-200

        copies of a given volume are required. Yet this is precisely the

        zone in 
        cuments and writings of local interest should be pub~

        lished. The reason for the failure of private industry to enter this

        field is the high labor cost ratio to the materials and equipment cost
in small-edition and Publishing. This fact marks out the domain as one

        which WPA can command. 
      

WPA can manufacture books by four near-print processes: namely,
hectograph, mimeograph, multilith, and multigraph. A unit of 50
man years will produce in editions of 50-100 copies the following ap~
      
proximate number of words:  

| | words: | pages: |
| hectograph: | 60,000,000 | 150,000 | 30,000 pages per man year |
| mimeograph: | 50,000,000 | 125,000 | 2500 pages per man year |
| multigraph: | 10,000,000 | 
        25,000| 500 pages per man-year |

These pages can be produced with less than 10% of the project
invested in equipment and materials. The multigraph resembles print
and is to be favored for editions above 100; hectograph and mimeograph
for editions of 50-100.

At $850 per man year, the cost of books produced by anyone of
these processes is approximately $42,000. Private industry produc~
ing books in larger editions counts on a manufacturing cost of three
to four dollars per page for printing; the multigraph books are pro~
duced at this cost per page (though the size of edition is naturally
smaller). The production of large-scale hectograph and mimeograph
work is not standardized as to prices in private industry, but cer~
tain clues are available. The NRA and AAA records were offered in
mimeograph and hectograph form to libraries at two cents a page, and
to commercial buyers at ten cents a page. Hence, an edition of 50
at these prices would have been sold for a gross price of five dollars
per page at the higher rate, and one dollar per page at the lower
rate. Figuring at the lower rate, WPA can produce these books at
less then the lowest selling price established by the services which
sold copies of the NRA hearings. But thesa prices were themselves
so out of line with library purchasing power that no sales were ac~
tually made, although the libraries desired copies.

This proves that there is a gap in the production of small ed~
itions of near-print volumes which private industry does not meet,
and WPA work in producing volumes of this class would not be competi~
tive with private industry.

It is believed, though details have not been worked out, that
volumes manufactured by WPA can be bound by rapidly-trained WPA
hand labor, and thus furnished in completed form to public institu~
tions and libraries.

II. The types of books that can be made in this fashion are (a)
the editions of the Federal Writers' Projects, where publication in
large editions from other sources has not appeared, (b) the pro~

        ducts of the survey of federal archives and the Historical Records

        Survey, (c) the newspaper digest, (d) compilation of material from

        unpublished archives, etc. (e) translations of books which would not

        sustain commercial publication in translation form (it is believed

        that a team of two workers, one of whom knows a foreign language

        well. and the English language moderately well, the other of whom is

        well versed in English and has a smattering of the foreign language,

        can translate competently foreign language books which do not depend

        for their value on Iiterary style. Such books are those in the
fields of social science and history). There is no limit to the
number of sound books not available in English, which would make
valuable additions to the research libraries of the country if they
were available in a limited edition translated.

III. Labor: where skilled typist labor is not available, literate
unskilled workers can be trained rapidly to use the multigraph.

Robert C. Binkley
May 11, 1936


