

MEMORANDUM ON TECHNIQUES OF REPRODUCTION

December, 1934

The scholar is both a user and a producer of research
materials. In both of these functions, he has hitherto de~
pended very largely upon the techniques of printing, and the
institutions of commercial publishing, and the library.
Present technical developments suggest thet he may have
greater freedom in distributing the products of his research
and in procuring materials for it. The most important tech~
niques that offer new opportunities supplementary to those
afforded to present day publishing and library service are
micro-copying (reduced scale photography on film), and near-
printing (photo-offset from typescript, mimeoform, multigraph,
mimeograph, and hectograph). Both near-printing and micro-
copying can be worked into the practices of scholarship in
the exchange of information and material in two ways: (1) by
implementing the activities of the individual scholar who may
use micro-photography to gather his own materials and near-
print to distribute the results of his research with moderate
cost to himself, and (2) by entering into the organization of
library service, micro-copying becomes a library service
when libraries can offer micro-copies of their material to
any scholar at a cost which may be as low as .15 or .25 per
100 pages on 16 mm. film (or less than the cost of interlibrary
loan). Near-print and other means of reproducing texts can
be fitted into library organization when libraries desiring a
certain book can arrange to pro-rate the full cost of bringing


it out by the technique appropriate to the number of libraries
subscribing. By such a distribution of costs, libraries could
put on their shelves precisely the materials that the library
administration and its advisors on the faculties may desire.

In pursuit of this general objective, the Joint Committee
on Materials for Research is working to develop more efficient
photographic apparatus for micro-copying by individuals or
institutions. It is exploring the possibility of organizing
facilities for the distribution of near-print material brought
out by the individual scholar at his own expense, and is about
to experiment with a publishing service that will ciroularize
libraries to discover the demand for a given work and pro-rate
the cost of production among the libraries desiring it.

One of the greatest obstacles to the free circulation of
the materials and products of research and the full utiliza~
tion of contemporary techniques is psychological. It is the
attitude of most scholars toward the printed book. It seems
in some cases that respect for the physical form overshadows
consideration of the intellectual content. For scholarly
documents of small circulation, documents that might well be
called the internal documents of scholarship, the same pro~
cesses that are used in business and government are appro~
priate -- namely, mimeograph, photo-offset, hectograph, and
other uses of typescript. Thirty-five percent of the govern~
ment's publications are already issued in near-print form.
It is possible that some materials now issued in the form of


published books and magazine articles of a highly special~
ined nature could be more appropriately and more economic~
ally circulated among scholars im near-print form or film,
and that some things not now published at all might be
made available if scholars would accept typescript as the
intellectual equivalent of print. The editors of several
scholarly publications here evinced a willingness to review
near—printed materials.

The Joint Committee on Materials for Research invites
your attention, thought, and coment upon this approach to
the problems of scholarly publication and the organization
of materials for research.

A brief account of the various new techniques and their
application follows:


        Micro-copying (reduced scale photography on film):


        Institutional:

For institutions desiring to make micro-copies of mater~
ials, several cameras are available:

The Recordak, developed commercially for making photo~
graphic records of checks and bills, photographs loose sheets
consecutively on 16 mm. film with great rapidity. The camera
is almost wholly automatic in action. The sheets are fed in
one page at a time, very much as sheets are fed into a cylinder
press or mimeograph. The machine is particularly well suited
to copying of any loose-leaf materials, such as typewritten
or long-hand manuscripts, charts, statistical tables, etc.
Small pamphlets likewise can be copied without renoving the
stitches. 256,000 documents relating to the Agricultural Ad~
justment Administration and the National Recovery Administration
were copied by means of the Recordak, as many as 17,000 being
photographed in a single day, at an average cost of one-eighth
cent per page, including cost of film, labor, and machine rental.


a special Recordak camera has been developed by the Eastman
Kodak Company for copying newspapers. This camera is available
only at Rochester, New York. The pages of any issue are photo~
graphed consecutively on 35 mm. film. Since the photographing
of an entire month's edition of a newspaper will require only
about thirty minutes, all the work can be done at Rochester. The
cost per negative is around 10¢ per foot, or 833 pages for $5.50.

A Recordak camera suitable for copying bound material is
also being developed by the Eastman Kodak Company. Samples of
its work are available for display.

A camera suitable for copying bound material has been de~
veloped also by Dr. R.H. Draeger of the Navy Medical School.
This camera, which is on display, has been installed at the
library of the Department of Agriculture. It can be built to
take 16, 35, and 70 mm. film.

By ordinary reproduction methods, the unit-cost per copy
tends to decrease greatly as the number of copies increases. In
film copying, however, it costs almost as little to make the
first copy as to make the hundredth copy. Great bodies of re~
search materials -- like the hearings relating to the N.R.A. and
A.A.A. codes or the cable dispatches received by news agencies
like the Associated Press, or the files of a series of the most
important metropolitan newspapers -- can be reproduced on film,
whereas their reproduction by any other method would be pro~
hibitive in cost.

Further, the cost of reproduction on film diminishes in
geometric proportions with photographic reductions. Thus, by
cutting twelve-point type to a photographic reduction of one
diameter, making it the equivalent of six-point type, four times
the amount of reading matter can be put on the area of photo~
graphic film equivalent to the area of the original. By re~
ducing the A.A.A. and N.R.A. materials 23 diameters, cost levels
far below those of other methods of reproduction were attained.

Through the further introduction of copying cameras in
great central depositories and of equipment for reading the film
copies in various libraries throughout the country, research
materials could be made much more mobile. Research libraries
on film could be built up. Through micro-copying, gaps in
library holdings could be filled, manuscript collections made
complete, newspaper files supplemented, ephemeral material pre~
served, and the needs of the individual scholar for specialized
research met.


        Individual:

For the individual scholar's needs in photographic equipment,
the Leica equipment and the new Folmer Graflex Copying Camera are
on display.


        Near-Print Techniques:


        Photo-Offset:

The photo-offset process is the result of a combined appli~
cation of the principles of lithography and photography, together
with a new type of printing press. A photographic image of the
material to be reproduced is transferred, via a negative, to a
thin metal plate, covered with a light-sensitive emulsion. An
exposure to an arc light hardens the portions of the emulsion
under the transparent parts of the negative and so creates on the
plat an emulsion image of the copy to be reproduced. The emulsion
is of such a character that it is receptive to greasy ink. The
plate, therefore, may be placed upon a press which moistens it
and inks it. The moisture adheres to the parts of the plate not
carrying the hardened emulsion, while the greasy ink avoids the
moistened survaces of the plate, but sticks to the emulsion image.
This plate then prints a reversed image on a rubber blanket with
which it comes in contact, and from this rubber blanket the wet
impression is offset on the paper sheet.

The photo-offset process is essentially a copying process.
A printed page, a typescript page, a drawing, a paste-up made
by combining text and illustrations, graphs or tabular matter
may serve as copy. Thus rare items, old newspapers, manuscripts,
etc., reduced or enlarged to any size desired, can be easily
reproduced simply by making a photographic negative of the ma~
terials. Typewritten pages can serve as master copy for the
making of pre-print text-books. Since photo-offset costs are
determined by plate surface, not by the content within this sur~
face, a saving proportionate to the photographic reduction of
the materials to be reproduced can be effected. An example of
this is the publication of the Abstracts of Studies in Education
      

        at Pennsylvania State College, edited by Professor Charles C.
Peters, and of A Double Tragedy, produced by Admiral Bradley A.
Fiske, copies of which are on display.



        Mimeoform:

The mimeoform process, devised by Dr. Ernest Kletsch of the
Library of Congress, is a combination of multigraphing and ordinary
printing. The method of printing employed is that of printing
from raised type. A Lanston monotype is used for setting the type,
which is cast in a low type mold. The caster automatically delivers
the line of short type, three-eighths of an inch high, properly
spaced and justified, to the channels of a multigraph drum. The
drum is then placed on a multigraphing machine which forms the
printing medium.

The product of the Mimeoform process is similar to that pro~
duced by ordinary printing. Print-face is used, italics, and

bold face are possible, the lines are justified, etc. Since
the space between the channels on the multigraph drum is
fixed, not more than six lines per inch are possible, regard~ 
less of the size of type. Footnotes, consequently, are better
gathered at the end of a chapter. For the reproduction in
small editions of straight textual matter, or bibliographical 
matter, the mimeograph process is deserving of serious consid~
eration. Samples of the work are on display.


        Multigraph, Mimeograph, and Hectograph:

The multigraph, mimeograph, and hectograph machines are
designed chiefly for office use. The multigraph, a small
rotary printing machine, is employed chiefly for printing form
letters and circulars of one or two pages in imitation type~
script through an inked ribbon and office forms from print~
face type with printer's ink. The mimeograph, with which
scholars are most familiar multiplies typescript by means of
a stencil through which ink is squeezed. The hectograph mul~
tiplies typescript by picking off in small amounts from a
master text a coloring matter, usually a methyl violet dye
which is transferred to successive sheets. The Standard New
Process Duplicator, for which the master text is prepared by
reversing a carbon to a master sheet which receives a violet
dye from the carbon through typing, has been found very con~
venient to use. This master sheet is easily attached to a
rotary machine and portions of the dye are dissolved off by
the successive sheets which are moistened by alcohol as they
are fed into the machine.

Robert C. Binkley
Chairman

T.R. Schellenberg
Executive Secretary

Joint Committee on Materials
for Research.

December, 1934


