

MEMORANDUM ON MICROPHOTOGRAPHY

I. INTRODUCTION

Microphotography is not an end in itself but a means to
an end; ample library resources are not ends in themselves
but means to an end; the same is true of the free flow of do~
cumentation. The end that all these things have as their com~
mon object is that scholars may read what they went to read
when they want to read it, and may communicate to each other
what they want to write when they choose to write it.

Just where does microphotography fit into this picture?
It is one of a number of mechanical techniques supplementary
to printing (including non—edition, full-size publication by
blueprint, photostat, Ozalid, etc.; large edition microprint;
and small edition near-print). The essential problem is to
fit all the techniques together in the larger pattern.

In this larger pattern microphotography has three kinds
of use: (1) To increase the efficiency with which individual
scholars collect their own material; (2) To increase the ef~
ficiency with which libraries and other institutions concerned
with documentation provide scholars with documents; and (3)
To reduce the cost incurred in communicating the results of
scholarly labor among scholars. In the development of the first
function (individual scholars' use), attention should be given
to the minimum training necessary for the scholar to use the
camera just as he uses the typewriter. The second use (insti~
tutional function) can be divided into (a) preservation of
material otherwise subject to destruction because of imperman~
once of paper or lack of storage space, (b) rational collec~
tion of material free from the capricious effects of market
accidents, and (c) complete mobility of material by selling
film copies instead of lending books in some cases, and by the
lending of the film itself in other cases. Preservation is
most clearly at issue in the case of American newspaper files
and business archives. The rational collecting of material
is a problem that is most comprehensively framed as the prob~
lem of making and filling a national want list of materials
for research from all over the world. The motility of material
turns at present on the maintenance of film services for short-
run copying at minimal costs, the development of film lending
practices for long-run copies, and the careful watching of the
copyright law and of relation of practice to the copyright law.

Within this larger pattern there are two other elements
not strictly mechanical: the union catalogue or finding list
by which a searcher[?] can quickly locate the document he wants
when he wants it; and the bibliography by which the scho~
lar can discover the answers to the questions which determine
the use of his time -- what he shall read and what he shall not
read. The mechanical techniques and the locational catalogues
and bibliographies should be systematically inter-related.

Microphotography is then a part of a field of mechanical
techniques which is in turn a part of a wider field of tech~
niques for rendering documents accessible to scholars, and in
all three of the uses outlined above distinction must be made
between developments that can be expected to take care of them~
selves and developments that ought to be guided, stimulated,
or headed off.

II. COLLECTION OF MATERIAL BY THE INDIVIDUAL SCHOLAR:

Just as the last generation of scholars learned to take
portable typewriters into the libraries, so the next generation
of scholars will probably take portable cameras. It is evident
that we know very little about what this portable camera will
be. The questions of roll or sheet microfilm and of reduction
ratio are unsolved. Their solution is related to the question
of how much training a scholar requires in order to do useful
photographing at a low or high reduction ratio. Again, the
photographic technique must lend itself to suitable filing.
Probably no organization working in this field has adequately
taken into account the difference between the individual scholar
problem and the problem of institutional and professional use
for scholars. In the case of the individual scholar, low cost
apparatus -- both for photographing and for reading -- is more
important than in the case of the institution. The cost situ~
ation is entirely different because the scholar does his own
selecting of material to be copied and costs are principally
limited to materials and processing. The reduction ratio prob~
lem is different because the amount of reduction ratio that is
feasible is probably limited more by the training and skill
of the scholar than the character of the apparatus or the
quality of the photographic surface. So it would seem that the
first thing we need is a better idea of the amount of photogra~
phic skill on the part of the individual scholar that ought
to be taken for granted in the development of apparatus and
practices and the process of training necessary to impart this
skill in minimum time. Keyed to this level of skill the cheap~
est possible scholar's camera should be designed. The Photo~
record is too elaborate and expensive; the Leica, Argus, Kodak
Retina[?], etc. are adaptations. Possibily a miniature Photostat
would be better than a film unit.

III. IMPROVEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL SERVICES:

1. Technical and cost studies:

Because institutions can invest in more expensive equip~
ment than individual scholars and can hire professional person~
nel, they need more refined technical standards than the indi~
vidual scholar, and the planning and pricing of their services
require more genuine cost information than we now possess.
Three studies are necessary:

(a) The completion of the work that has been promoted at
the Bureau of Standards under the direction of the Advisory
Committee to the BS on the Reproduction of Records. The need
for this work of quality standardization is emphasized in Ben~
nett's report on sheet microfilm. Micro-copying needs its units
of measurement -- its "micropoints" -- to measure letter sizes
and some suitable units to measure the different characteris~
tics of faithful and legible reproduction. When such fundamen~
tal work is accomplished it will be easier to compare techniques
and materials (film, paper, diazo, microprint, etc.) and to plan
projects and estimate mechanical costs. In the meantime one
of the dangers in the field is premature standardization on
a certain medium or of reduction ratio.

(a) The second cost study has been requested several times
of ADI but has never really been done. It is a careful time
and motion accounting of the costs of microphotography under
library conditions covering all types of work -- from short-run
articles from scientific periodicals to long-run, high-reduc~
tion ratio jobs. These cost studies should be so carefully
done that it will be possible to compute costs based on full
utilization of man-power and equipment and to use the data in
establishing sound rate structures.

(c) The third type of study is one for which we are not
yet ready but that will become necessary as the meaning of an
inter-library system becomes more clear to the librarians of
the country. This is a study of costs of library service which
would include the cost of the unused book as a part of the cost
of providing the reader with the book he uses. Library collec~
tiona above a certain magnitude include an increasing propor~
tion of books that are not consulted but which properly belong
in the library because it is impossible to predict whether they
will be consulted or not. On the basis of this study librarians
might discover more effective ways of leaning upon each other
for the book contingently needed. To illustrate: What would
be the value to Widner Library of a catalogue of the New York
Public Library or of a union catalogue of all the libraries in
the country? If Widner Library were to regard these other li~
brary holdings as contingently a part of its own collection
with each item capable of being summoned for use when desired,
the value of these catalogues would be infinitely greater than
if the library would regard them merely as a source of bib~
liographical information.

If these studies should prove that there are classes of
books whose cost per use is 10, 20, or 100 times the cost of
acquisition and administration, then library accounting would
come increasingly to rely on the inter-library system for this
type of book. It has been a great misfortune that the prob~
lem of inter-library relations has been so frequently stated
as if its essence were a matter of good will or cooperative
spirit or ethiCs. That which is needed is an analysis of li~
brary functions and costs which will point to the line that
distinguishes the responsibilities of separate libraries from
the responsibilities of the library system of the country.
A preliminary study of this type ought to be made of the use
of newspaper files, particularly of American newspaper files,
because it is impossible for any library to have them all and
it is probable that inter-library lending of film copies of
newspaper files will have a large place in library administra~
tion. These studies may result in a diversion of library in~
come so that libraries will spend less in purchasing the little-
used materials that are already available in other libraries
and more in bringing copies of books actually needed to their
users when the books are needed. Such a diversion of library
income would tend, first, to render the national book resources
of the country more comprehensive, and, second to increase the
proportion of library money spent for photo-duplication on
request.

2. Preservation:

One large function of film copying is the preservation
of materials that otherwise must be lost either because they
are printed on inpermanent paper (newspapers) or because stor~
age space is inadequate to keep them in their original form
(business archives). The investment necessary to preserve
Americen newspaper files far exceeds anything that can reason~
ably be expected from Foundation grants or even the expenditures
of the larger American libraries. Particularly futile would
be any venture which made an effort to save these American news~
paper file by filming than with the expectation of recouping
costs of filming from sales of the film cepies to libraries.
Probably the only source of income adequate to save these news~
paper files will have to come from the localities involved,
through their own library agencies or their newspapers. It
could be much in the national interest if the practice of lend~
ing film copies of these files could be established. This applies
particularly to the bulkly files of the late 19th and early
20th centuries. A grant from Rockefeller Foundation was given
to ADI to do a sample job in Ohio, where a WPA project to film
and index newspapers was under way. The use of this money has
come up to expectation insofar as it is actually furnishing a

lending copy of the film, to be administered through the Ohio
State Archaeological and Historical Society, but it has been
disappointing that the ADI did not succeed in using the grant
to discover ways of stimulating local interest in the preser~
vation of local files.

It will lead to mistakes of policy if the function of
preserving what otherwise will disintegrate or be destroyed
is confused with the function of rounding out rational collec~
tions of materials. Where preservation is the object, the num~
ber of film copies made should be very few since the cost of
making extra film copies diverts resources from the preservation
of other items; where the rounding out of collections is the
object, the number of copies to be made depends entirely upon
the specific case.

3. Making of Rational Collections:

Micro—copying permits libraries to round out their col~
lections regardless of the accident of the market, and to do
this at moderate cost. No book need be regarded as out of print.
The very magnitude of this opportunity points to its dangers
and difficulties and raises the question already touched upon
of how far our library system is to be regarded as a national
unit and how far each library is to be on its own. Conceiving
the library system of the country as a national unit, a unit
which spends over two milliOn dollars a year to import books
from abroad, it is not unreasonable to plan for the day when a
copy, photographic or otherwise, of every worthwhile book in
the world will be housed in some American library. Meanwhile
there are many cases where due to the accident of the market
fundamental reference sets that ought to be available in a num~
ber of libraries are actually available in very few. To round
out the total national resources of the country by using micro-
photography requires a national want list and a union catalogue,
and these must come. They are as much a part of the new picture
presented by the new techniques as are the cameras and reading
machines themselves. In the expansion of our national resources
of books, it would probably be wise to work for the minimum
number of copies, as in the case of American newspapers.

There are cases, however, in which n number of libraries
seems to have the same need for some fundamental body of mater~
ial, and the question arises whether in those cases filming
projects should be sponsored in the expectations that the costs
of filming will be returned from sale of the film copies.
Without deciding on any particular case the following principles
seem to apply:

(a) Wherever a body of consumers is willing to pledge in
advance the funds necessary for a micro-copying project with
costs pro-rated among the subscribers, the job should be done,
though in many cases private capital will do the work.

(b) If the costs of manufacturing the negative film are
predictable with reasonable accuracy and the quality of the film
can be described in suitable units of measurement advance sub~
scriptions including the pro-rating of the costs of the negative
should be obtained before the film is made, and no subsidy
should be necessary unless as a simple revolving fund which could
be guaranteed not to be dissipated. There is no reason for
introducing into filming projects the type of risk-taking sub~
sidy which has marked publication investment in the past.

        Foundation activity in providing large sets of materials for
      

        a number of institutions should be aimed at helping the consum~
      

        ers to organize to supply their needs, not at the subsidizing
      

        of producers who will promote their wares among the consumers.
Above all we should not be misled at this point by the concep~
tion that there is any special merit in the shear quantity of
microfilm produced. The quantities will take care of themselves
when the right equivalent is established in the functioning of
our libraries. This should remind us that if we are to look
forward to the lending of long runs of film we ought not to cre~
ate unnecessary purchaser interests which would militate against
the development of lending.

4. Motility of Materials:

The most important improvement in library services will
arise from the tremendously increased motility of all materials
for research. This development in a sense includes all the
others. It has already been touched upon in connection with
the need for film lending and with the possibility of drawing
from abroad books not in America, and the need for an analysis
of costs to libraries of maintaining unused or little-used books
on their shelves. Full motility of materials is a pre-condi~
tion of the development of a national library system: it pre~
supposes a union catalogue in book form available in every li~
brary. Even our bibliographical techniques may have to be modi~
fied.

The full mobility of materials is at the present moment
most nearly realised in the case of that literature which al~
ready has its union catalogue in book form and its special type
of bibliography, and this the literature of the natural sciences.
Locations of natural science periodicals are known in any library
in the country from the union list of periodicals, and the
bibliographical control of the articles in these periodicals
through Chemical and Biological Abstracts is far more complete

and comprehensive than is normal in the social science or hu~
manities. For this reason it was to be expectod that the na~
tural scientists would be first to appreciate the full meaning
of the motility of material and first to run into some of the
difficulties in realizing the potentialities of microfilm.
As fast as library resources pertinent to othar fields are union
catalogued nnd bibliographies in other fields are brought to
the level of current scientific bibliography, the problems and
opportunities confronting the natural sciences will spread to
the other fields. And this will come to an issue in the option
between current purchase of material on paper and reliance upon
filming if and when a copy is needed.

At this point is becomes necessary to work out very care~
fully the relation of film copying practices to literary pro~
perty and the copyright law. Probably everything that can be
done is being done to keep this situation in hand -- there is
the gentlemen's agreement of 1935, the able legal assistance
of Mr. Manning of the firm of Root, Clark, Buckner and Ballan~
tine, the participation in the sessions on the revision of the
copyright law; and yet we may have fumbled a little psycholo~
gically in promoting film copying of complete journal files
without adequate realization of the psychological consequences
and of the bearing the enterprise might have on the special re~
lations of American libraries with certain German publishing
firms. There may be something in the project of Mathematical
Abstracts to cause a similar concern, but in this case it might
be possible to work out an example of using film to expand the
range of learned journals.

Another problem connected with the motility of material
is the number and location of first-class film photographic
units and the cost levels at which they operate. We cannot
expect to have a high efficiency filming unit in every library;
on the other hand if we have a really national library system
our union catalogue will note unique holdings of every library
whether it happens to be a film center or not, and in such cases
nothing is simpler than to combine lending and filming. Let
a small library near Chicago send its book to Chicago to be filmed
and let the film be sent to tho purchaser. This would mean
that there would be film installations within over-night mail
of every place in the country and there location is again re~
lated to the problem of union cataloguing because we still do
not know whether we want to have regional union catalogues or
not.

IV. REDUCTION OF COSTS OF COMMUNICATION:

The third major role of microfilm is to reduce the cost
of communicating the results of scholarly labor among scholars.
If every book and manuscript in a library is available to an

‘ i f s 4 oe
’ ay Fe oO a
ptghey we a ‘oy » ee
, ak oe af Hes a ogy Fe hey ok Poa
seep Pe vo
/ - , 4 vier
? é wet ‘ ety ”
’ foe * be, fF ms Fe tm
+ ‘ f- , 0
ae y ¥ of wh og

a . tr
rf
aghast Of f SO8 wa Pt

’ . foe te + hip
f- . ob fe fi. fone neem
Hoe Hy , 7 , 4 sa wn
‘ s ' f for ee wre
f “ fo: . pone
. af “fy ’ / tee ae
. é ete? ’ : * f : oe ’ te etite
} ¢ a ’ foe a ole
é  , ge ’ t ’ t tte ge A tee
. e y ‘ , ¢ oo %
o- 4 of Soy gee
, .! Fo Wy roost poh nn ee
: i A y boy soee g
' ¢ : a tek meg
/ . , POT OM phe the

* . . ’ tye gS OS ay tame
pF Be Bg Fg cg BES) ee te ahd heh

ent + ona

Praag

yorrm i» “ea



