

The Joint Committee on Materials for Research is interested in
experiments in the use of techniques other than printing as a means of
circulating the products of research among scholars. Many products of
research are, in effect, internal documents of scholarship. They should
not be circulated as if they were to be useful to a wide reading public.

American Universities have followed three policies in regard
to the circulation of the doctoral dissertations completed under their
auspices. Sometimes a typescript copy of the dissertation is deposited,
in the university library; sometimes two typescript copies are deposited,
so that one copy may be available for lending; sometimes publication is
required, either as a typescript book by the photo-offset process or as
a printed book.

Another possible method of circulating products of research
that can interest but few scholars is suggested by the development of
the hectograph technique. The new "liquid process" hectograph increases
the efficiency of the old process of multiplying texts from an original
made with a methyl violet ink. The cost of a large number of hecto~
graphed copies of a typescript is not much greater than the cost of mak~
ing one or two carbon copies.

This present volume consists of approximately 350 pages. The
approximate comparative costs are as follows:

1. Cost of typewriting, which would be incurred whether the
dissertation were to be produced simply as an original typescript and
carbon copy, or as a small hectographed edition ....... $35.00 - $75.00

2. Other costs incurred in preparing a hec~
tographed edition of 50 copies:

Master paper ...................... $ .75
Copy paper ........................ 21.90
Carbon paper ...................... 18.00
Fluid .............................. 5.00
Labor of running the copies ........ 8.00

Total                                      $53.65

3. Other costs incurred in making one original
and a carbon copy:

Cost of paper....................... 5.95
Cost of carbon .....................  .60

Total                                     $6.55

4. Additional cost of preparing 50 unbound
copies by the hectograph method over cost of preparing
one original and one carbon copy:        $47.10

A copy has been deposited in each of the following libraries:

Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Cleveland Public Library
Columbia University
Duke University
Free Library of Philadelphia
Harvard College Library
Historical Society of Pennsylvania
Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania
Library of Congress
New York Public Library
Princeton University Library
University of California
University of Chicago
University of Pennsylvania
University of Pittsburgh
University of Wisconsin
Western Reserve University
Yale University Library

A few remaining copies are available for sale at the Western
Reserve Book Store at $3.00 per copy (paper bound) and $3.75 per copy
(cloth bound).

The Joint Committee on Materials for Research would welcome
comments and criticisms of this device for circulating products of re~
search or materials for research when the needs of scholarship are met
by the circulation of a few copies only.

Robert C. Binkley, Chairman
Joint Comittee on Materials for Research


