

Memorandum on the Present State of Photographic
Copying on Micro Film, with Special Reference to
the Problems of W.P.A.

In the past five years experiments have been
in progress in the copying of books, typescripts, newspapers,
and magazine articles on moving picture film. The essential
idea is that reading matter can be reduced many diameters on
translucent film and then read indirectly by projected images
on  screen in a special reading machine.

The price of the ciné-positive film on a
safety base is $.01½ a foot for 35mm. film (the full size for
professional movies), and $.0075 a foot for 16mm. film (the
kind usually used in amateur movies). Since reading matter
can be reduced sixteen diameters and read effectively by pro~
jection, eight pages of a newspaper can be photographed on
one foot of 35mm. film, and sixteen pages of typescript on
one foot of 16mm. film. When films are made in large quan~
tities, the processing costs can be brought very low.

The largest experiment made so far in using
this process as a substitute for printing or mimeographing has
been the copying of the hearings of the N.R.A. and A.A.A. Over
300,000 typescript pages were copied and distributed to twelve
libraries, each of whioh bought a set. The price to each li~
brary was at the rate of about $.12 per 100 pages of micro~
copied typescript.

The Bibliofilm Service, operating in the li~
brary of the Department of Agriculture, offers to copy any
article from any of its periodicals at a basic price of $.01 a
page. In Cleveland and in Philadelphia, union catalogues are
being made by a procedure that utilizes the micro-copying pro~
cess. The author cards from all libraries in the vicinity are
copied very rapidly on film and then typed from the reading ma~
chine. This procedure permits the making of a union catalogue

without disturbing the ordinary routine of a library. The net
cost per typed card for the filming, materials, labor of typing
and rental of equipment is less than $.03 in Cleveland.

In Boston and in Cleveland, W.P.A. projects
have been prepared to provide for the photographing of news~
paper files. Since newspaper files of the last sixty years have
been printed on wood pulp paper, they are doomed to certain
destruction by sheer chemical disintegration. If copies of the
files are made on microscopic film, the newspaper record will
be preserved. The Bureau of Standards conducted a study of the
stability of safety film and reported in January, 1936, that
cellulose acetate film has every prospect of full permanence
equal to that of the best rag paper.

Another field for micro-copying is in the col~
lection of manuscript materials. A number of scholars have
taken small micro-copying cameras to Europe with them. One man
brought back 80,000 documents after a summer's work. In the
collection of historical records, it will sometimes happen
that the owner of a manuscript is willing to have a copy made,
but unwilling to part with the original. In such cases, the
micro-copying technique will permit very cheap and rapid copy~
ing without inconvenience to the holder.

These micro-copies are white-on-black negatives.
They can be read by projection without being enlarged. Moreover
positive copies can be made directly from them at the same cost
per foot of film as the original film plus processing costs.
If full-size paper copies are desired, they can be enlarged or
"blown-up" to any size on ordinary photostat paper with an or~
dinary enlarging apparatus. The surprising thing about micro-
copying is the low material cost involved. Most people have
hitherto associated photography with a rather high cost of film,
plant, or photostat paper. In microphotographic work, the ma~
terials cost is so low that it becomes almost negligible in
comparison with labor cost.

The equipment for micro-copying is developing
very rapidly. Until recently most people who used 35mm. film
either adapted an old moving picture camera or used the Leica,
 a small German camera, or its relative, the Zeiss Contax camera.
These cameras are excellent from every point of view for a
variety of uses, but they have three disadvantages in document
copying: 1) they require a number of accessories to adapt them
to document copying; 2) they include many expensive structural
elements which are not necessary in document copying; 3) they
use a roll of film only five feet long. (There is a special
Leica camera which uses  a thirty-foot roll). The short roll of
film increases the labor of reloading and processing the film,
also the difficulty of filing the film after it is processed.

Cameras adapted specifically for the purpose of
micro-copying appeared in the hands of certain inventors
who were doing title abstract work -- especially Lambach and Ken~
nedy. Then a subsidiary of the Eastman Kodak Company, the Re~
cordak Corporatio of 350 Madison Avenue, New York, devised an
automatic camera to copy bank checks on l6mm. film, and a reading
machine to read the film record. The Recordak is a very rapid 
and foolproof machine about the size of an ordinary small desk. 
It is the machine that was used in copying the N.R.A. and A.A.A.
hearings and in the union catalague work. The Recordak Corpora~ 
tion has recently built a larger machine to copy unbound news~ 
papers. With this machine they are making copies of the current
files of a number of newspapers for the sake of preserving them  
and diminishing storage costs. They also copied the full file 
of the New York Times for 1914-18, a period in which the origi~
nal newspaper file was so very heavily used that it was rapidly
wearing out. The Recordak Corporation then undertook to design
a camera for copying bound books. They now have two bound-book
copying cameras that are highly automatic: 1) for copying or~
dinary books on 16mm. film; 2) for copying newspapers on 35mm.
film. The Bureau of the Census has just spent $60,000 to equip
itself with a full set of photographic machinery of this type.
The Eastman Company, through the Recordak Corporation, secured
the contract. 

The Recordak Corporation has also adapted its
projector, which was originally invented to take care of the
needs of banks that used check-copying machines, to micro-copying,
and they now offer a library projector which will handle micro~
copies of newspapers. Two hundred of these library newspaper-
reading Recordak projectors are now in the course of manufacture.
They will sell for around $200. Another company has been devel~
oping micro-film reading apparatus, and though it has not put
anything on the market to date it will be ready within a few
months with a reading machine that will sell for about $80. This
company, the International Filmbook Corporation, Rockefeller
Center, New York City, expects to go into large-scale mass pro~
duction and may ultimately bring the price of its reading equip-
ment well below the $80 figure. A third manufacture who is en~
tering this field is the Folmer Graflex Corporation of Rochester,
New York. For two years this company has been working on a
portable automatic copying camera which will rapidly and accurate~
ly photograph on 16mm. and 35mm. film and on 70mm. paper. The
Photo Record camera will sell for a little over $200 and will
be available on January 1, 1937 or before. It has been subjected
to constant criticism by persons experienced in the problems of
document photography and will be probably the best general utility
camera in document work. Another set of apparatus has been de~
signed by Dr. Draeger, who has worked in conjunction with Dr.
Watson Davis of Science Service, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Wash~
ington, D.C., and with Bibliofilm Service in the library of the
Department of Agriculture. Dr. Draeger has designed several
cameras, none of which are as yet available on the open market.

He has also designed a reading machine which is about to enter
production. Mr. Lloyd B. Kennedy of Warren, Ohio, after being
informed of the problem of W.P.A. photography, undertook to
design an inexpensive but accurate camera for micro-copying of
newspapers. He can produce this camera, together with a carriage
to hold the newspapers and a system of lights, for about $200 per
camera.

Those who have been studying the applications
of microphotography are agreed that it has now passed the ex~
perimental stage and has become important in the practical plan~
ning of work in archives, manuscripts, and newspapers. It may
turn out to have special advantages in the current phase of
W.P.A. activities, because it affords perfect accuracy of trans~
cription and low materials costs compared with other kinds of
photography. 

The union catalogue projects in Philadelphia
and Cleveland demonstrate another quality of microphotography in
relation to W.P.A. problems. With microphotography, documents
which are to be worked up, statistical materials which are to
be broken down, or records which are to be copied in typescript
or cards can be taken rapidly from their places of deposit with~
out inconvenience to the custodians and brought together in a
workroom where large bodies of people can be organized under
factory routine, with reading machines and typewriters or pads
of paper, to transmit the materials, rearrange them, index them,
or subject them to any type of statistical breakdown.

The use of microphotography in multiplying the
N.R.A. and A.A.A. hearings proves, moreover, that certain types
of material, when put into good and usable form in a filing
case, can be "published" in a sense for a price of $.12 per 100
pages.

Robert C. Binkley


