

Memorandum on Present Status of Joint Committee Affairs

April 23, 1940

I. Business Records:

The new edition of the pamphlet on preservation of business
records will be issued by the Business Historical Society of Har~
vard University. It will be prepared under the general guidance of
Professor Gras of the Joint Committee, and with the support of a
grant of $400 from the S.S.R.C.

In Cleveland the University is continuing to collect business
records and use them in the local history seminar.

This category of materials is still being approached in a
haphazard manner, but it is to be hoped that a definite effort will
be made to tie it in with the more comprehensive program for non-
professional scholarship which is being developed in Cleveland and
may then be transplanted elsewhere (see VII below).

II. Copyright:

The new copyright bill, S.3043, was introduced in the Senate
on January 8, 1940, and referred to the Committee an Patents. On
April 2, a letter, drafted by Mr. Lydenberg of the Joint Committee
and Mr. Manning of the law firm of Root, Clark, Buckner & Ballantine,
was sent to the members of the Senate Committee on Patents and to
Senators Pittman and Thomas. This letter outlined the nature of the
interest of research workers in copyright, the position of the Joint
Committee with respect to the bill, and requested the opportunity of
being heard at any hearings to be held on the bill. On April 3, a
letter was sent by the chairman of the Committee on Patents to Dr.
Binkley, stating that the committee had decided to take no action on
the bill at this session of Congress as the time was too short "to
hold the necessary hearings and to give the bill the thorough study
such a measure requires...."

One question to be decided is whether a new gentleman's agree~
ment should be drawn up to supersede that of 1935.

In the meantime, sound and generally recognized practices of
copying for research purposes should continue to be developed.

III. Category of Newspapers:

Three main problems to be considered in the treatment of
newspapers are:

(a) How to treat the cross section of public opinion as
represented in supplementary newspaper files which have not been
indexed (the index usually being confined to the main file of a
period).

In a session with Mr. Chapman of the Washington WPA on
this, Miss Barry was told that if a manual of procedure could be
worked up for the Washington Project Control Division, the Division
could see that it was utilized by the newspaper projects being
operated in the country. In the matter of getting advice on pro~
cedure, Dr, Binkley had been working through the committee on
newspapers (of which he was Chairman) of the American Historical
Association committee on historical source materials. This con~
nection should be maintained, and possibly a somewhat larger group
drawn in. Miss Barry will see Mr. Kellar, chairman of the AHA
Committee, on this next month.

Contact has been maintained with the researchers inter~
ested in the original newspaper digest procedure, and this should
prove useful at this stage. In the meantime, Professor Cole of the
University here, who has specialized in the use of newspaper mater~
ials, is helping with the immediate problems of procedure for the
pioneer project on the ground.

(b) How to promote the filming of newspaper files in connec~
tion with their indexing, and how to establish the practice of making
two positive film copies of the indexed file -- one to replace in
service the newspaper files on the ground, the other to be made
available on interlibrary loan.

A set of rules elaborating on this procedure was drawn
up for the Washington WPA but has not yet been put into very effec~
tive operation. An attempt should be made to check on this delay.

At the annual meeting of the American Library Association
in Cincinnati next month, there will be an exhibit on newspaper
micro-filming and indexing. In connection with this exhibit the em~
phasis will be laid on filming and making two positives (which amount
to only about 4% of the total cost of an indexing-filming project).

The American Historical Association is planning to have
a session on "new aids to research" at the annual meeting in New York
next December. At this meeting the problem not only of newspaper

treatment, but the much larger picture of the role microphotography
can play in the preservation of research materials in the present
world situation might well be brought into focus.

(c) How to stimulate the transplanting of the Annals of
      

        Cleveland idea to other communities. This is one of those slow
tasks where much patience and perseverance are required. A favor~
able attitude had just been created in Baltimore and should be fol~
lowed up before it lapses. Interest which had been aroused in
other communities should be kept alive by correspondence and encour~
agement.

IV. Use of WPA White-Collar Workers Generally:

This is largely a matter of organizing campaigns and provid~
ing stimulus and encouragement in the form of comprehensive and con~
crete programs to be worked up in the various communities. At the
national Open House Week of WPA, to be held sometime next month,
Dr. Binkley's article on "The Cultural Program of the WPA" will be
given wide distribution and used as the basis for promoting the use
of white-collar labor.

V. Copy-to-Order Method of Publication:

Experimentation in the use of the copy-to-order method of
publication is going forward, and a start has been made on time
and motion studies. There is a good deal to be done here which
should be worthwhile because of the tie-up it will have with non-
professional scholarship. When the cost and utility curves have
been plotted, this method may prove to have a significant place in
research. In the meantime, the link between microphotography and
B-W should be investigated. If it is possible and practical, as it
may well be, to use a positive print enlargement, made on a thin
insurance bromide paper from a negative film, as a master sheet
for B-W copies, the handicap of being able to use only materials
printed or typed on one side of the page can be eliminated, and
the step of transparentizing material printed on heavy paper can be
omitted. The problem of the long roll versus the individual sheets,
or of the double sheet folded with the blank side in, must be con~
sidered in terms of curling, collating, folding and binding. The
problem of permanency is not yet solved.

As it is developing now, this method should have a place
somewhere between microphotography, carbon copying, and hectograph.

VI. Non-Professional Translation of Latin-American Literature:


This project, which envisages the use of non-professional
personnel with some leisure time and an interest in and knowledge
of the Spanish language to do volunteer translating which would
be published in a non-edition method of publication, has had a
nice start but requires supervision. Señor Samper-Ortega of the
Colombian Embassy has been very generous in cooperation, has
secured permission for translation of some forty of the 100-volume
set of literature of which he is editor, and has made available to
the Joint Committee a set of volumes to be cut into sections and
distributed for translation. It would be desirable to secure similar
cooperation with some of the other Latin Anerican countries.

The assistance of the Department of Romance Languages of
the University here has been nade available, and an informal com~
mittee on translation has been established, of which Miss Barry is
chairman, to make contacts, maintain correspondence, act as editors,
and arrange for availability of the translations.

Some strategic planning needs to be put under way to channel
this type of activity into its proper place in the whole schema of
auxiliary research.

VII. Leisure-Time Pursuit of Scholarship and Letters:

A grant of $10,000 has been made available by the Carnegie
Corporation to Western Reserve University to support the Cleveland
Program for the Leisure-time Pursuit of Scholarship and Letters.
This program was largely planned by Dr. Binkley along the Joint Com~
mittee lines of use of the non-professional scholar in research, and
use of the non-commercial techniques of reproduction of materials in
distribution. Miss Barry is one of a committee of three appointed
by the president of the University to consider this program.

As the name implies, it is a plan envisaged to promote in
this commmity non-professional creative activities in research and

        belles lettres. The first step, an exploratory stage, embraces a
census of actual and potential labor supply and of the kinds of
stimulus and training to which they would respond; and a survey of
the problems in research and the uses of materials for research
capable of solution by this personnel. The second step, an ex~
perimental stage, would probably take the form of an "institute" at
the University whose organization would be largely determined by
the facts uncovered in the census and survey.

In this connection, indeed as an inherent part of the plan,
the study of local archives should be considered. Local archives
form a category of materials whose use may be stimulated and studied
by the local interest aroused by this program. It is hoped that
though Mr. Posner thay be no longer available to conduct this study,

the grant of $1800 given by the Carnegie Corporation for this
purpose may be used to employ another person as well qualified
as possible to carry on this work. This is definitely an op~
portunity to put into practice some of the ideas of the Joint
Committee.

VIII. Correspondence and General Office Maintenance:

General correspondence of the office is being maintained
by Miss Barry. Letters requiring technical information are being
channelled to the appropriate persons in the "network" that has
evolved through the years. Some policy will have to be worked
out for those letters requiring special strategy and long-range
planning.

Respectfully submitted,

Adeline Barry
Executive Secretary

