

February 6, 1939

MEMORANDUM

1. INTELLECTUAL ORGANIZATION

It is the purpose of this memorandum to propose a major
field of exploration and activity for the American National Committee
on Intellectual Cooperation. While this work might be regarded as an
expansion of the task of reporting on intellectual organization in the
United States, a task mentioned in the agenda of the last meeting of
the committee, it would actually go far beyond the making of a mere
report, and would become an enterprise that wovld bring into focus all
the varied activities of the committee.

The problem and the proposed project will define them~
selves if we start with the assumption that there is in the world a body
of specific institutions within which intellectual cooperation takes
place. These institutions include everything from education and re~
search to entertainment and publishing. They constitute, in a sense,
a world of their own.

As a world of intellectual institutions, they are at
once distinguished from and related to two other worlds, -- the worlds
of power, and of debts and markets.

The world of power, -- the political world, -- has been stud~
ied as a whole. Its processes have been examined; its history and its
physiology are analyzed in whole libraries of books, descriptive and
analytical. The same can be said of the economic world.

However, most of our descriptive and analytical study of
the intellectual world has been devoted to the product rather than
the process. Our studies of this world have borne the same relation
to the study I propose that geography bears to politics, or expert tea-
tasting to economics. Our scholarly literature, critical and histor~
ical, is in the main a travel literature. We have indeed collected
much information about the functioning of different parts of intellec~
tual organization. In the field of education, for instance, and per~
haps in the functioning of the press, a great amount of information
has been collected. But we do not have, even in outline, a conspectus
of the organization as a whole.

We have at hand the cumulated results of the thinking
of many generations in analyzing the economic and political worlds.
We know something of the quantities that are involved; we can estimate
resources and armaments; we have statistics on credits and business
activity. We do not all agree in the analysis of the dynamics of these
worlds, but at least we are accustomed to looking at them as wholes.
But we have no corresponding vision of the world of intellectual coop~
eration.

And yet intellectual organization is the house in which
we live. We have lived in it so long that we think we can take it for
granted. We have looked from its windows and described the other houses;
we know that some alterations have recently been made. But we lack even
a floor plan of the building as a whole.

We are aware of great and recent changes in this world
of intellectual cooperation: radio, movies, literacy, censorship, prop~
aganda, the multiplying of culture languages and of culture centers.
business formations, as in radio and movies; power formations, as in
the totalitarian states, have brought new situations into existence.

Our primary practical concern is with the functioning of
this world of intellectual organization. Our interest, as a committee,
includes an interest in peace and an interest in prosperity insofar as
these affect the intellectual world, and particularly its international
features. But we are not, primarily, an organization concerned with the
power world or the economic world. There are many other organizations
working there.

Let us take note of two characteristics of the intellec~
tual world which exhibit its peculiarly international character. First,
there is still in existence a world-wide acceptance of the results of
experiment in the natural sciences. A scientific experiment, properly
recorded in our highly institutionalized system of learned journals, not
only has world currency, but world authority. Its credit is better
than bank credit; its authority is more definitive and universal than
the authority of any judgment of a court of law. The assumption of
good faith that obtains in the field of scientific work is the kind of
assumption that exists only among insiders in a going concern. The
power world has restricted the jurisdiction of the high court of science,
it is true. Nothing on race and anthropology can pass in Germany with~
out the nihil obstat or the praemunire. But in general, the authority
of the jurisdiction of science is a world authority.

In the field of intellectual property there is a peculiar
relation of public property to international organization. Ror the
public domain in intellectual property is international domain. In
publicly-owned tangibles -- in bridges and roads, buildings and battle~
ships -- public domain concentrates in the object the qualities of sover~
eignty and of property. But intellectual property that is public domain

becomes something from which no one is excluded. Only the open sea shares
with intellectual property the character of international domain. In~
ternational action (as in the interntional copyright) may have the effect
of diminishing international domain.

Only in the presence of a clear picture of the function~
ing of this world of intellectual cooperation can a committee such as
ours work effectively. There must be a picture of the present situa~
tion, a definition of the directions in which we would wish to see the
situation change, and then a selection of the acts best calculated to
accomplish the change.

II. MEASUREMENTS OF ORGANIZED INTELLECTUAL ACTIVITY

Let us first consider how far this world of intellectual
organization permits of measurement. It may be that the objects we seek
to attain are not measurable, but they are at least related to measurable
features of the intellectual world.

We must assume that there is in some way a possible dis~
tinction between American intellectual onganization on the one hand,
and international intellectual organization on the other. The simplest
distinction, which may be taken as a first approximation, is the distinc~
tion between events occurring here and abroad. A more refined analysis
may then show that some events occurring here belong rather to interna~
tional than to national intellectual organization, and that some events
occurring abroad belong to our own intellectual organization.

In what units can intellectual organization be measured?
The simplest are men, money, product, and time. In the publishing in~
dustry we should inquire, for instance, how many people are employed
in each of the kinds of writing, how much money is involved in pUblish~
ing and how it is distributed, how many items are published, by how many
people they are bought, by how many people they are read, and how much
time is involved in the reading. We should inquire how the writers are
motivated to write, and the readers to read. So far as possible we
should break down these quantities into appropriate classifications.

The same units of measurement ean be applied to the edu~
cational system, to the research system, to entertainment, to music,
radio, moving pictures, lectures, perhaps even to trawel and to mail
communication, if that be adjudged a part of intellectual organization.
Perhaps even commercial advertising should be accorded some gross meas~
urement, and certainly the work of propaganda agencies should be given
at least a quantitative estimate.

Insofar as dollar estimates of quantity can be made, and
the particular channels of the flow of money described, the relation
with the economic world is clarified. Insofar as the positive action

of government (as in education), and its negative action (as in cen~
sorship) are defined, the relation of the intellectual world with the
world of power is also defined.

With these gross measurements in hand, and they might
be tabulated in huge cross-section charts, it will be possible to
begin the analysis of international intellectual organization insofar
as the intellectual organization of this country shares in it.

It is at this point that we could bring together the
answers to such questions as these: What proportion of newspaper space
is given over to foreign news; what proportion of teaching time is
given over to the teaching of foreign matters, including such things
as foreign literatures and international relations; what proportion of
research energy is committed to these fields; in what degree are our
library resources committed to foreign as against domestic materials?
What preportion of our consumption of intellectual goods comes from
abroad; what proportion goes abroad; etc. These are broad categories,
but in the course of measurement they would be refined.

If it is possible, even as a crude estimate, to measure
world intellectual activity, and set against its quantities the quanti~
ties for America, and the amount of overlap, the quantitative framework
for the making of policy will be established.

III. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

When we have the full picture before us, it will be both
possible and necessary to think rigidly upon the specific objective of
the committee.

A very important issue will have to be faced at this
time: Is it the object of the committee to use the existing intellec~
tual organization of the world to accomplish certain effects in the
world of power, or to protect the organization and develop it as a value
in itself?

These two objectives may prove inconsistent with each
other. Efforts to use intellectual organization as a means of influ~
encing power policies may recoil against the organization itself, either
directly, as when an effort to bring pressure to bear in Germany results
in the withdrawal of Germans from international association, or indi~
rectly, as in the case of an invitation to governments to restrain in~
ternational name—calling by police power (moral disarmament), which may
prove a boomerang against full freedom of the press. (Note the re~
straints on Dutch and Swiss press in respect of Hitler.) If we are to
function as an unofficial propaganda agency for America, our actions
may be received in some quarters with the same attitude that greets
communist and fascist propaganda here. Any of these policies are open
to us, but we must think them through clearly.

I can only compare our situation to that of the Church
when it faced the difficult problems of adjustment with the world of
secular power. Intellectual organization has quietly accomplished in
the course of the past century for the world as a whole an intellectual
unification such as Christianity once accomplished for Western Europe.
Communism and fascism may reject part, but they do not reject all, of 
the bases of world collaboration.

With our objective defined, and our measurements estab~
lished, it will be possible to find the critical points for action.
We may discover, for instance, that the study of international relations
in our schools is moving forward without the need of extra pressure,
but that the study of modern lengueges is declining and needs help. If
our figures show this situation, we should concentrate on the point where
help is needed. And so on throughout the whole field.

In the presence of the magnitudes that our survey would
disclose, the resources of our committee must appear very small indeed.
We will not spend over many years what it costs to produce one movie.
If we undertake to propagate a particular idea by direct action, we must
do it with resources that would not suffice to put on the market a new
brand of tomato sauce, let alone a brand of cigarettes. But this con~
sideration should not discourage us; rather it should impress us all
the more with the unique importance of the situation we occupy, as the
only body in America with terms of reference that fit it for general
staff work in the world of intellectual organization. Of all the coun~
tries from which delegates go to Paris, is there any which is really so
well situated to assume freedom from political constraint and financial
limitations in intellectual activities?

At the same time, a consideration of the meagerness of
our resources should counsel us against drop~in-the-bucket activities,
and against action and effort in matters where we do not see clearly the
exact character of the interest we are serving. None of us really knows
whether one or another of many possible new systems of international
intellectual property will serve or obstruct the functioning of the
system of world intellectual cooperation. Neither are we sure what
operations in promoting abroad the idée Americaine will fulfill our de~
sires, and what ones will kick back, like dollar diplomacy.

IV. CONCLUSION

Let us circulate this memorandum, or some other memorandum
on this question, among our membership. Then, after discussion, let
us see if we can get enough money to employ someone to explore the ground
of quantitative analysis. Let there be prepared for a meeting next
December a sketch of a chart, with as many figures as possible filled
in, showing the quantities involved in our American part of the world
of intellectual organization, and its overlap with the foreign part of
this world.

Then let us face our problem of defining our objectives,
making a clear statement of what it is that we wish to maximize in the
world. Let policy be clarifled by drafted resolutions. Then, field
by field, let us hear from our members where action seems most needed.

Robert C. Binkley


