

January 10, 1936

The Joint Committee on Materials for Research takes pleasure in informing
you that the Works Progress Administration has developed a project for the in~
ventory of state and local archives. This project promises to contribute de~
cisively to the improvement of materials for research in America. It is being
organized along lines projected in past years by the Public Archives Committee
of the American Historical Association and by the Joint Committee on Materials
for Research. It calls for the expenditure of approximately $1,200,000 by June
30th, and it will be administered by the Federal Writers' Projects.

The Joint Committee is anxious to have the full cooperation of historians
and other persons interested in the preservation and proper utilization of the
treasures which lie hidden in the records of local units and is therefore re~
questing you to indicate to the National Supervisor of the Historical Records
Survey your interest in this program and your willingness to assist in making it
a success. It is particularly desired by the Joint Committee that you indicate
to the National Supervisor whatever suggestions you may have concerning the scope
of the project in your state. The National Supervisor is also interested in hav~
ing full statements of the progress which has already been made in each state
andd locality in the inventory of public records and other historical materials.

The National Supervisor of this project is Dr. Luther H. Evans, for the
past five years Assistant Professor of Politics at Princeton University. The
Joint Committee assures you that his point of view coincides with that of ar~
chival and historical experts. The Joint Committee is glad to give him its full
support, and sincerely hopes that you will do tha same.

The principal task to be undertaken by the Historical Records Survey is
the listing of the records of state and county governments. In some cases, how~
ever, it is understood that municipal and other local unit records will be in~
ventoried. Plans are also being drafted for the preparation of general descrip~
tions of manuscript collections throughout the country. These will necessarily
have to be brief, but it is hoped that a general guide to manuscript collections
can be prepared by the survey. In this importent work, it is believed that very
valuable assistance can be rendered by the custodians of such collections, and
also by research people who have worked in them.

The Joint Committee or the National Supervisor of the Historical Records
Survey will be glad to furnish you any further information which you may desire
concerning this project.

The National Supervisor is Dr. Luther H. Evans, 1500 Eye Street, Washington
D.C.

Robert C. Binkley, Chairman
Joint Committee on Materials for Research


