

4 November, 1933

To the Members of the
Joint Committee and Correspondent:

Three large-scale enterprises (relating to library resour~
ces, adult education and unemployment relief), which, consid~
ered separately, are visionary and impracticable, but combined
together may become practicable and imperative, for they present an
opportunity that may never recur for enriching American life at
an important intellectual level.

These three enterprise: are, briefly:

1. The improvement of American resources in materials for re~
search by taking comprehensive inventories and calendars of
manuscript and other collections. These inventories would be
made throughout the country and deposited in the Library of
Congress, constituting a national catalogue of a great body of
treasures which are at present in many cases unorganized and 
useless, even to the institution possessing them.

2. The development of the practice of reporting unpublished
materials to the Library of Congress in such a way that a
larger proportion of the population may become permanently
useful participators in the activities of scholarship. Incen~
tive, status and leadership will be given to the tasks of col~
lecting and organizing materials for research.

3. The relief of that class of unemployed who have started on
a career of scholarship, but have been sidetracked by the de~
pression. It is wasteful to permit the demoralization of these
people. They could be saved and used just as efficiently in
improving our cultural materials as the C.C.C. is improving
our forest resources.

Is there not a possibility of combining these three enter~
prises on the following basis:

1) Relief funds at subsistence wages from the Federal
Government; product of work to become property of the Library
of Congress.

2) Recruitment through institutions active in scholar~
ship.

3) Definitions of tasks and detailed administration
through libraries, historical societies, etc. on volunteer
basil. 

4) General administration and technical standardization
financed by a foundation, with aid of volunteer advisers.

At the present moment the question confronting us is this:
Does this project possess sufficient possible merit to
taking steps to give it, immediately, some further definition?

On behalf or the Joint Committee on Materials for Research
I can testify to the vastness and importance of the tasks of
inventory and calendar work, the desirability of developing
within the world of scholarship other activities than those of
writing and publishing monographs, and the key position of a
standing national inventory of research material resources in
the development of plans for the future of research in this
country.

I do not know how large is the class of people who could
and would do this work at subsistence wages if called upon,
nor how the administrative costs would figure, nor how the plan
would fit the policies of the National Administration, but it
should be possible to clear up these points with the help of
competent advisers. The plan is not ripe for action, but is
ready for the next step in definition and formulation. Shall
that step be taken?

Or shall we take upon ourselves the responsibility for
dropping the whole thing at this stage?

Very truly yours,

RCB

RCB/FT

This is a postscript to the enclosed letter. The following
note, just received from Robert T. Crane of the Social Science
Research Council, is of interest:

"On my last trip to Washington I found that the education
people had about abandoned hope of getting relief funds into
education. They sre suggesting a small federal appropriation,
some five hundred millions annually, for educational relief
that would go directly into the schools. These special schemes
seem generally to have struck a snag, though the proposal to
send the unemployed to college has not been given the coup de
grace as yet. I can see no room to hope for effecting the plans
you have had tentatively in mind."

You will doubtless wish to take this opinion into account
in forming en opinion on the whole subject. The question is
really, at this moment, how far ought we to go in defining a
plan before deciding to drop it or present it.

Sincerely,

Copy to
Leland
Crane
Lydenberg
Cartwright
Judd
Tyler
David
Marshall
Coleman
Quinn
Buck
Gras
Murdock



