

Techniques and Policies
of
Documentary Reproduction


        June 24, 1938
      

Not since the invention of printing have the arts
of communication been subjected to so stupendous a techno~
logical impact as that which comes upon them today. On the
one hand, radio reaches the masses without the usa of writ~
ing: on the other hand, new techniques in the graphic arts
give to written texts a special accessibility they have never
before possessed. Whether the radio will operate to preserve
or 
        destroy the bonds of thought that unite the world's intel~
iectual commonwealth is a choice that lies beyond our juris~
diction; but the effect of the new techniques in the graphic
arts upon this world commonwealth will be determined by the
policies adopted ty the agencies of scholarship, librarian~
ship, and archival science that are represented in this very
Congress.

The use of writing in the world of thought is nor~
malized in four procedures: correspondence, publication,
circularization, and deposit. Correspondence is usually by
 letter, -- a unique document going from a writer to a reader.
Publication is normalliy on the scale of 2000 or more copies
of an identical text, distributed by sale to readers direct~
ly, or serviced to them indirectly through libraries. Inter~
mediate between correspondence and publication is the pro~
cedure of circularization, often in a few score of copies,
in mimeograph form. This procedure is often used for
committee reports and other internal documents of scholarship.
Deposit ordinarily involves fhe accumulation of one copy each
of many texts, printed or manuscript, collected or archival
in a place where they can be consulted.

The essence of all these procedures is communication
from writer to reader, whether the communication be immediate
or deferred, to one reader or to many, to known persons or to
persons unknown, and whether the men of the past communicate
with the men of the present or the men of the present commun~
icate with the men of the future. Post office, publisher,
bookseller, librarian, and archivist are all administrators
of the communication of writings.

There are indeed some property tenures vested at
different points along these channels of communication. They
are like the tolls along the river, some of them necessary
to keep the channel open, some of them functionally piratical.
But in general it can be said that thoughts are still of all
things in the world the most nearly free, that most of the
written texts upon which thought is recorded are freely dis~
closed to those who would examine them, and that people who
hold ideas worthy of expression feel rather an urge to ex~
press them and share them than to withhold them from the world.

The costs and uses of the different processes for
the communication of texts vary among themselves, but taken
together they should form a system. In this system we might
say that printing and publication as we have known it can be
likened to expensive concrete highway construction for roads
that are heavily travelled; mimeograph and planograph are
like the less expensive surfaces for roads that are more
lightly travelled; and blueprint and micro-copying are the
dirt roads, the footpaths, and the trails that reach everywhere.

The great contribution of printing to the function~
ing of the system of communication was its ability to convey
the same text to many readers, situated at many different
places, at costs much below those incurred in the copying of
manuscripts. This is still the function of printing and pub~
lication; their place among the channels of communication is
not challenged where this situation obtains. The technology
and accountancy of printing and publication define with great
accuracy the situations to which they are applicable, -- namely,
those in which 2000 book purchasers are willing to share
among themselves the costs of making and distributing a book.

The contribution of the so-called near-print pro~
cesses -- hectograph, mimeograph, planograph -- to the system of
communication lies in their ability to distribute texts when
the recipients are numbered in scores or a few hundreds only.
For instance, there is now being compiled in the United States
a comprehensive inventory of local archives and church records.
The inventories when completed will fill many hundreds of
thousands of pages. In every community there is need of an
inventory of the archives of that community, but the needs of
national scholarship are met by having a complete set of this
inventory in about 100 depositories strategically located
throughout the country. It would be a misuse of the printing
technique to incur the cost of printing these inventories
when the number of copies required falls in this range, there~
fore they are being mimeographed.

Concerning every text that is put into the channel
of communication, the question properly arises: Where is it
to go; how many ought to receive it? However this question
be answered, that is to say, whether the transmission of 20
or of 20,000 copies will fulfill the purposes of communication,
there is a technique of reproduction appropriate to the cir~
cumstance.

If the channel of communication is to be kept open
by levying upon the recipients of texts their pro-rata share
of the cost of the whole edition, there are two ways of doing
this. The first of these has generslly been followed in the
past, namely, to print the text and fix a price at which the
number of book purchasers actually entering the market will
pay the whole cost of production. But experience in the pub~
lishing industry shows that book purchasers will not ordinarily
assume their pro-rata share of the publication if there are
less than 1000 or 2000 buyers. The second method is to esti~
mate the number of potential purchasers and the price they
would be willing to pay, and then multiply the the text by a
technique and in an edition that would fit the estimate.

For each technique, whether printing or near-printing,
and for each variant of format, there is an edition size at
which production costs per copy touch the level at which book
buyers will enter the market. Estimates based on American
costs yield the following results: At a production cost per
copy of $1.50 per 100,000 words, printed books must be issued
in an edition of 550 copies; planographed books in editions
of 250; mimeographed ones, 115 copies; and hectographed ones,
90 copies. If a text for which there is to be circulation
of 115 copies only is printed, the production cost of each
copy will be not $1.50, but more nearly $7.50. At such pro~
duction costs, recipients will not pay their share, and cir~
culation dries up.

These estimates cover manufacturing costs only. In
the publishing industry, costs of distribution are incurred
in order to bring about the sharing of the cost of production.
In some cases a communication will actually be cheaper and
more effective if no attempt is made to recoup production costs
from recipients. Letters and circulars are ordinarily com~
municated in this way. In fact, is it not our experience
that when we wish to get action upon a document, we usually
communicate the document directly to the person whose action
is desired without asking him to share the cost of making the
copy? This principle cannot and should not be extended to all
communications, but it is quite possible that many texts now

published and sold as monographs would more effectively fulfill
their purposes and at less cost to their producer if they were
simply mimeographed, circulated to the known specialists in the
field, and deposited for reference in certain libraries.

In all of these processes -- printing and near-printing --
there is always a first cost (setting the type, preparing the
planograph plate, making the mimeograph stencil) which must be
incurred regardless of the number of copies that are made; and
 running cost (for ink, paper, binding, and labor) which is
proportionate to the size of the edition. Up to a certain
point in edition size, more than half of the production cost
of each copy is found in the item of first cost; after that
point in edition size is passed, running costs exceed the first
cost. The point in edition size at which first costs exactly
equal running costs is specific for every process. In print~
ing, at American price levels, it is in approximately an
edition of 2000 copies; in planograph, 1000; in mimeograph, 400;
and in hectograph, 77.

Consider, for instance, a book that can be set up
in press, ready to run, for $500 (first cost). An additional
cost of $125 will be incurred for paper, ink, and labor in
running an edition of 500 copies. The production cost per
copy in this edition of 50O is therefore $2.25. If the edition
size is raised to 1000 copies, another $125 of running cost
will be incurred, but the total production cost per copy will
fall to $.75. In an edition of 2000, $500 of running cost
will have been incurred (exactly matching the $500 of first
cost), and the cost per copy of the product will have fallen
to $.50. If the edition is increased beyond this efficiency
point, production costs per copy will continue to fall, but
more slowly. In an edition of 3000, the cost per copy will
be §.42; in an edition of 4000, it would be $.37. Most of
the economies that can be effected by the printing technique
are reached at the 2000 edition mark. In planograph work,
1000 copies is the efficiency edition, and in mimeographing
it is 400 copies. That is to say, if we had carefully-
itemized statements from printers, planographers, or mimeo~
graphers, analyzing the costs incurred in producing 2000
copies of a printed book, 1000 of a planographed book, or
400 copies of a mimeographed book, we ought to find that in
each case half the cost was chargeable to operations and
materials needed in running off the copies.

Whether we attempt to recopy production costs of
texts by pro-rating them among recipients or by having the
producers of texts assume these costs themselves, there is a

technological advantage in carrying an edition if possible to
its efficiency point, and in choosing for any enterprise of
text distribution a process which will reach all desired re~
cipients by operating at or near its efficiency point. It is
technologically just as inappropriate to mimeograph as many
as 2000 copies as it is to print only 400.

There is another series of processes based upon
photography that is revolutionary in character because it oper~
ates with efficiency points of one to five copies. These pro~
cesses can be called non-edition processes because they permit
practically the manufacture-to-order of copies of text as fast
as demand for them appears. The processes are of two families --
the blueprint family and the micro-copying family. First let
us consider the blueprint family.

A properly prepared typescript text, properly mounted
in sheets of appropriate size, can be run through a blueprint
machine (or one of the variants that yield a black-on-white
copy), and new copies struck off at costs running from $.03
to $.06 per square foot. A 400-page octavo book, with 6 x 9
pages, presents 150 square feet of text. Such a text can be
multiplied in unique copies made to order by one or another of
the blueprint processes at costs from $4.50 to $9.00.  A book
by Elizabeth M. Richards on Alexander Vattemare and His System
      

        of International Exchanges has has been issued experimentally in
this way. This method is available not only for the multi~
plication of typescript made with black ribbon on thin paper,
but also for paper negatives photostated from any text. An
author's typescript or an out-of-print book can both be brought
into circulation by this method.

Micro-copying is, of all photographic techniques,
the most elastic in its applications. It imposes upon the
reader the burden of precuring for himself the reading appara~
tus, but it offers to readers thus equipped a practically
unlimited range of utilities. Wherever there are installations
of efficient micro-copying machines, unique copies of any text
can be made to order and on demand at costs per 1000 words that
are in the price range of normal book costs, or below it.
Just as in printing the lowest unit costs are reached when a
large number of copies of the same text is made, so in micro~
copying the lowest unit costs are reached when a long run of
pages is copied uniformly and in sequence.

The different applications of the micro-copying
technique vary among themselves as widely as does mimeographing
from printing. The principal technical differences are those

between the short run of a few pages and the long run of many
thousand pages, and between the low reduction ratio of 10-12
diameters and the high reduction ratio of 18-20 diameters.
The Bibliofilm Service, operated by the American Documentation
Institute, furnishes a great many micro-copies of short scien~
tific articles in reductions of 10-12 diameters. About forty
American newspapers are currently reproduced on film for stor~
age and preservation in a reduction of 18 diameters. It has
become to feasible to plan for the preservation on film of the
billions of pages of newspapers, periodicals, books, and manu~
scripts that bear their texts on perishable paper. It is also
technically possible for libraries and depositories to round
out and complete their collections regardless of the accident
of the market. More than this, it has become technically
possible for any body of documentation to be made available
anywhere in the world.

Libraries are beginning  to plan cooperative projects
in the field of microphotography. The financial terms upon
which such cooperation is equitably to be effected have not
as yet crystallised. In the early days of the railroad a vast
amount of experiment in rate structures preceded the stabili~
zation of railway rate practices. In the beginning of micro-
copying services there must also be experiment, but some of
the principles governing such experiments may even now be sug~
gested.

There is a sense now in which all texts now organized
in depositories may be regarded as being technologically equiv~
alent to "books in print." There is a sense in which the func~
tion of collecting materials can merge technologically with the
function of "publishing" them, if by publishing we mean provid~
ing copies on demand. Collecting and "publishing" tend to merge
also in another way, for micro-copying can be a means of making
collections, bringing together copies of texts otherwise
scattered among various depositories. We can, for instance,
conceive of enterprises that will bring together, by means of
film, documents scattered or inaccessible in China, or in
Latin America.

In organizing and financing such projects there is a
strong case for interlibrary cooperation and sharing of ex~
penses. The number of libraries whose cooperation is indicated
for any such enterprise can be deduced from the principles
governing size of edition that apply to printing and near-print
techniques. For in micro-copying, the making of the negative
is a true "first cost," and the making of positives from the
negative is a true "running cost."

Let me illustrate: Suppose we were to plan an enter~
prise in which an expedition were to be sent to China or Latin
America to collect on film ten million pages of text. A photo~
graphic expedition would have to be fitted out, and all the
costs of travel and operations would become part of the first
cost of the film. Let us say that the ten million pages are
reproduced on 200,000 feet off film. The cost of film and pro~ 
cessing in making each positive is a running cost. The running  
cost per copy might be about $10,000. If the cost of the ex~
pedition were estimated at $100,000, the number of cooperating 
libraries should be ten, each of which would contribute a total
of $20.000, half to the cost of making the one negative, half 
to the cost of making the positive which the library would then  
own. The participation of more than ten libraries in such a
project would still reduce the cost to each of the finished
positive film, but the savings would be less and less substan~
tial as the number of participant subscribers increased beyond
the efficiency point. If another ten libraries wish to utilize
the method in expanding their resources, they would do
better to organize another enterprise operating in another
field, and count on mutual loans to give the benefit of both
projects to all.

At another extreme in the potential library use of
micro-copying is the making of micro-copies of books or period~
ical articles in lieu of loans. How shall library practice in
this field be developed? Shall we make and hold a negative,
and issue a positive to the individual user? That would mean
setting up and administering a secondary library of short film
strips, duplicating in a fragmentary way the library of books.
There is probably a minimum number of pages, a minimum footage
of film, at which it will be economical to make and hold a
negative. This may be a unit of a hundred feet of film; it
may be less, it may be more. The administrative cost of organ~
izing a collection of short runs of pages will exceed the oper~
ating cost of recopying for each user; for long runs of pages
this relation will be reversed.

At this point another element of library policy
appears: the preservation of material from the results of wear
or chemical disintegration. Any material that is being worn
out, weather in filming operations or by desk use, must either
be withdrawn from use or filmed, so that film may be substituted
for paper. Perhaps the user of materials that are perishing
may be brought to contribute toward their preservation. Cer~
tainly it will tax our utmost administrative capacity to derive
full benefit from these new techniques in library service without
charging ourselves with the expense of too much lost motion.

The individual scholar, no less than the library,
has placed upon him not only new opportunities but new respon~
sibilities. In the past, scholars have conceived of the book
as the only proper unit in which the results of their labors
can be communicated. Now they can plan to make available to
their colleagues not only that portion of their product which
is suitable for book production, but also the underlying
materials and working papers. Just as the scholar will benefit
by library policies keyed to the use of microphotography, so
the library will benefit from new activities of scholars. The
scholar who goes out on his own and gathers his material in
film copy form will find the library a willing depository of
his accumulation when he has finished his own use of it.

These techniques taken in their entirety are a chal~
lenge to scholar, librarians, and archivists. They invite
scholars to think of their work not so much as the making of
books, but rather as the communicating of ideas. To librarians
and archivists, they present the issue of whether libraries and
archive depositories are to be operated primarily as store~
houses or property or power houses of cultural energy. All
the traditions of four centuries of scholarship converge upon
the book in print as a sacred symbol of thought. Much of the
tradition of librarianship and archival practice is that of
the collector and preserver of valued goods. But scholars now
have many things to say to each other which they cannot say in
books, because the technique and accountancy of printed book
publication do not permit anything to be said unless it is said
in the same words to 2000 people; and libraries, even the
greatest of them, are overwhelmed by the geometrical increase
in the quantity of the world's documentation, so that none of
them can, as collectors, hold for their readers more than a
sampling of the record of civilization. The libraries have
through union cataloguing and lending policies worked out meth~
ods of pooling their resources. Micro-copying can now greatly
multiply their pooled efficiency. Certain sweeping changes in
policy would seem, however, to be necessary if micro-copying
is to pull its full potential weight. Hitherto, libraries have
loaned among themselves books and small items easily transported
by mail; hereafter, it will probably be more efficient to meet
such demands by micro-copying small items in lieu of lending.

There are also the larger units in which micro-copying
works at its highest efficiency, because it can be done at a
high reduction ratio in long sequences of pages. I am think~
ing of such things as newspaper and periodical files, and of
book collections of various kinds. I am thinking of the
strategy of preservation calculated to meet not only the

certainties of chemical disintegration where texts are borne on
perishable paper, but the risks of destruction in war, fire,
and flood. Certainly it will not be possible for all libraries
and archives to preserve in film all their holdings, but it
should be not only possible but quite practical for every de~
pository to accept responsibility to civilization for some part
of its holdings, dove-tailing with the part that other libraries
take responsibility for. Those holdings -- let us begin with the
pershable newspaper files -- need be micro-copied only once,
the negative stored in safety, and two positives made from it.
One positive would then become available for lending, and
thereby would be added not only to the permanent resources of
the library itself but also through loan to the liquid resources
of the world. If a number of libraries accepts this responsibility,
each for some part of its holdings, and receives in exchange a
borrower's equity in the copies made by all other libraries, its
own investment in the preservation of its own materials will re~
turn to it many fold in its own access to the corresponding
micro-copied holdings of other centers. If a circle of twenty
libraries should each organize, and within its present budget
each should shift a small percentage from the purchase of
texts on paper to the transfer of some of its unique holdings
from paper to film and should agree to a mutuality of borrowing
and lending, the resulting enrichment would be direct and immed~
iate, and the long-term effect would reach beyond the field of
librarianship.

All over the world we see barriers to intercourse
rising, barriers to the movement of goods, obstacles to the
movement of ideas. Here is a technique upon which we can base
an institution that will work the other way, -- toward a freer
intercourse in the world community.

The legitimate equities of authors as fixed by copy~
right need not suffer. The proper reward due to the custodians
for their acquisition and careful custody of their treasures
must always be accorded them. But neither copyright nor owner~
ship rights should be exploited piratically and to the detri~
ment of full freedom of communication among mankind.

Robert C. Binkley


