

February 5, 1938

MEMORANDUM ON NEWSPAPER POLICY

Newspapers constitute a category of material widely utilized
in research. Three characteristics call for the attention of this com~
mittee: (1) The high perishability of the files themselves, which can be
controlled by micro-copying; (2) the distribution of the files among de~
positories, which renders travel more necessary in the use of this mater~
by scholars than in the use of book or periodical material. To the
extent that micro-copying is combined with adequate long-term lending
conditions 1 and 2 are rectified. (3) The heterogeneous character of the
contents, which can be controlled by calendaring, digesting, or indexing
operations.

A study of preservation (1) and of accessibility (2) is now in
order. Ideally, we can Say that if all newspaper files were micro-copied
and an extra positive of all files were available for lending purposes,
the problem of preservation and accessibility would be met; technically,
we know that newspaper files of the woodpulp period which are not micro-
copied will sooner or later be wholly lost; practically, we know that the
nation as a whole has an interest in preventing this ultimate destruction,
but the resources that can be freely directed to the protection of the
national interest in this matter are not sufficient to swing the whole job.
The heterogeneous character of the content of newspaper files calls for
a vast amount of clerical or semi-skilled scholarly labor, the supply of
which will come in all probability only from white collar relief rolls
on the one hand or volunteer amateur efforts on the other. The Joint Com~
mittee has taken measures to prepare the way for meeting this situation.

The first question to be faced by this Committee is whether the
Committee should address itself to this problem or let the matter drift.
If we take up the problem, a variety of approaches is possible.

The Committee could proceed on the assumption that there is a
national interest in preserving a certain proportion of the newspaper files.
It could then set on foot an inquiry to determine how many files and which
specific files would meet the clearest national interest. It could esti~
mate the cost of this work of preservation, and leave it to foundations
whose funds are administered for the support of national cultural interests
to decide whether the result is worth the investment.

A second possibility is somewhat differently conceived. We
might proceed on the assumption that the interest in the preservation of
newspaper files is partly national and partly local to the area in which
the newspaper wan published, and that within that area it might be pre~
sumed that local cultural institutions and newspaper publishers themselves
share in a local interest. Upon this principle it is possible that a
general formula could be devised involving a national and a local contri~
bution, and the fomula and division of responsibility could be so estab~
lished that there would be in effect a continuous fertilizing by local
contributions of an original national foundation grant. The first alterna~
tive sets before us the picture of a job to be accomplished and completed;
the second, of a process to be organized.

In some neighborhoods there is a lawn roller which is passed
from one householder to another every spring. The householder who borrows
the roller must contribute his own labor, and the community gets the
benefit of the improved appearance of the street. Perhaps something
similar is possible in newspaper preservation. Let the best of apparatus
be made accessible free of charge to a community that will do its share
in using it.

Perhaps this isn't enough. Local funds may not respond to this
opportunity. What additional inducement can be envisaged? Possibly in
those cases where no complete file of the newspsper is found in the lo~
cality of its publication, aid could be freely given for filling in from
files existing elsewhere; possibly the contribution of the locality should
be set in terms of film footage or of the labor of bringing a newspaper
file into shape for filming. The locality might provide the film and cler~
ical labor; the foundation, the machine and the processing.

Whether the fundamental decision is in favor of the first or
second plan, or some alternative plan, a policy in the matter of deposit
of negative, lending of positive, making and selling of positives from
negatives must be worked out. If this part of the establishment can be
made to yield a revenue, the revenue can be re-invested in additional film
operations under either plan. Perhaps the revenue feature of this part
of the filming system could be organized in a manner comparable to the ad~
ministration of the Photostat collection of the Modern Language Association.
Libraries, by annual subscription, would obtain borrowing rights in a
constantly increasing volume of film positives. These borrowing rights
would increase in value to the subscribing libraries with every increase
in the variety of the files available in micro~copy form. Ultimately the
situation might reach an equilibrium as libraries determined what propor~
tions of their accession budgets was properly devotable to newspapers, and
what proportion of the sum thus to be utilized was best expendable for
rights in a mounting collection of micro-copies.

The foregoing discussion relates to the preservation of news~
paper files and to the improvement of their accessibility. But, as has
been noted above, there is another feature of newspaper category of mater~
ial which calls for special action, and that is its heterogeneous character,
which yields to such controls as are provided by calendaring, digesting
and indexing.

The present status of the relief program is such that in many
localities a special stimulus may perhaps be given toward the provision
of funds for micro-copying under the second assumption, because such
efforts can be associated with indexing work within the relief program.
This situation does not modify the fundamental feature of that balance
between local and national interest in the preservation of newspaper
files; it mearly makes possible at the present juncture a more active local
interest than would otherwise be easily predictable. By the time this
situation has run its course, the force of example will be much greater
as a stimulus to activity in localities which have taken no preservative
measures in respect of their newspapers.

How can a decision be best reached between alternatives One and
Two -- a national project, and a system of helping local initiative -- and any
other method of organizing preservation and accessibility? What is the
most desirable arrangement for the administration of the proposed service, --
American Documentation Institute, University of Chicago, both, or other
agencies? What is the ideal role of the Library of Congress?


