

September 15, 1937

Memorandum to Joint Committee on Handling of Money Re~
ceived from Institutions subscribing to the Annals of
      

        Cleveland, produced by the Cleveland Newspaper Digest
Project

At a meeting held in December, 1936, the Joint Committee
authorized the taking of subscriptions by the Joint Committee for
the Annals of Cleveland, the product of the experimental W.P.A.
newspaper digest project in Cleveland. Arrangements had already
been made with the sponsor (the Board of County Commissioners of
Cuyahoga County) and the district W.P.A. officials for this step.
Subscriptions were taken on the basis of a letter drafted by the
Joint Committee and approved by the district W.P.A. and the sponsor,
offering twenty-five volumes of the digest for $25.00 and promising
a pro-rata rebate if fewer volumes were delivered.

The minutes of the Joint Committee meeting show that it
was originally suggested that the libraries be asked to become co~
sponsors of the project, in that way finding a means of contributing
to it and sharing in its product. Discussion, however, indicated
that such a measure would be impractical because of legal restric~
tions on library budgets. The alternative of taking subscriptions
for sets of the digest was therefore adopted.

On July 20, 1937, the regional office of W.P.A. at Chicago
ruled it to be contrary to W.P.A. policy to permit the sale of the
product of W.P.A. labor, even though the proceeds of the sale were
to return to the project in the form of additional materials. In
the supplemental project which was submitted to clear this problem,
the regional office approved the multigraphing of fifty copies for
free distribution to public and semi-public agencies, and fifty copies
for exchange purposes.

We are now circulating a financial statement covering the
funds handled by the Joint Committee in connection with this experi~
mentel enterprise, together with a letter to the Director of Women's
and Professionel Division of W.P.A. in Columbus, Ohio, concerning the
handling of the money remaining in the subscription fund.


        
          
          
        
      


        Expenditures
      


