

Conditions Governing the Operation of Newspaper Indexing
Projects, Including the Microfilming of Selected Newspaper
Files, Recommended by the American Library Association
Committee on Photographic Reproduction of Library Materials

1. That a microfilm negative for preservation be made, at least
of so much of the newspaper file as is to be indexed, and
of the whole file if possible. The negative should be of 
uniform density, should be fixed to an approved minimum
residual hypo, and should have definition permitting the
making of legible paper enlargements without undue loss
of definition

2. That two microfilm copies be made from the negative.

3. That the negative, by whomsoever owned, be deposited with
an agency, approved by WPA at the time the project is
approved, which will offer safe storage facilities and
which will agree to make positive copies from the negative
at reasonable cost. The negative should not be used,
however, to make copies of anything less than a reel.

4. That of the two copies made from the negative, one
(called the service copy) be used to replace in service
the newspaper file, and the other (called the lending
copy) be made available on interlibrary loan. Service
and lending copies may be placed in the custody of a 
regional library center, such as a state library, or
in the custody of the Library of Congress; provided
always that the institution accepting custody of the
lending copy agress to administer it and to lend it
in suitable protions, use on the premises notwithstanding.

5. That a fully descriptive listing of the film be deposited
with the Library of Congress, Union Catalog Division,
Washington, D.C., including the following information:

a) Exact citation of paper filmed
b) Location of negative and price of copies
c) Location of service copy
d) Location of lending copy

6. That the index, whether cumulated in annual or other units,

        be brought to page form, either in typescript, mimeograph,

multigraph. If typescript, four copies are to be made
(original and three carbons), the first carbon to go to
the Library of Congress and a copy to go with each film
Of the newspaper, so that film copies of the index or a
portion thereof can be made on demand, or a volume of
the index can be loaned by the institution administering
the lending copy, and a volume can remain with the ser~
vice copy.

7. That there appear on the title page of the index, in
whatever form issued a notation of the information
given in Point 5.

(These conditions are devised to produce uniform handling
of newspaper microfilm copies wherever produced, to
insure a oomplete record of all film, to guard against
the abuse of proprietary rights in the negative film,
and to give to all WPA operationa in this field a
national as well as a local value.)


