

JOINT COMMITTEE ON MATERIALS FOR RESEARCH


        Circular to Members and Correspondents
      

Professor Gras has drafted the following statement covering the
work of the sub-committee on categories of material:

1. General objectives.

The Sub-Committee should endeavor to develop a
consciousness of the problem of the search for new materials.
Scholars are quite aware of the importance of studying facts,
but they do not vizualize the task of discovering and utiliz~
ing materials not already in use. The imagination of the
scholar has hardly reached this realm of endeavor. In a gen~
eral way, this is the most important task.

The Sub-Committee should search out persons and
agencies to discover, preserve, and make available any
materials. This is a difficult task. Indeed, in my mind
the work should be turned over to some kind of permanent
secretary.

2. Operations.

By means of negotiation it would be possible for
the Sub-Committee to arrange each year for the writing and
presentation of papers at the meetings of learned societies.
Scholars, librarians, and others could be persuaded to write
articles for journals.

But above all it would be necessary to write innumer~
able letters to individuals: (a) to state what is being done,
and (b) to indicate what remains to be done. This is an un~
ending task. I should think that it might be continued over
a period of two or three years at least.

3. Costs.

Obviously, the costs of operation would depend upon
the amount of work done. I should think that from $120 to
$1,000 a year would be required.

At the same time, Professors Gras and Quinn have doubted the
wisdom of separating proposed sub-committee I (Categories) from
proposed sub-committee I¥ (Education).

Quinn writes: "My principal criticism of the reorganization lies
in the fact that I think there should be a more intimate associa~
tion between numbers 1 & 4. I really believe, on thinking the
matter over, that one committee can do more effective work in
educating the world on the subject of the proper categories of
research material if that same committee has gone through the
agony of deciding upon its categories. Otherwise sub-committee I
would have to furnish material to sub-committee IV, and as I grow
older I think anyone who makes one committee grow where two com~
mittees grew before is doing a great service."

In reply to this observation, I wrote:


"The education of the laity is another problem in which
relatively unexplored areas confront us. We must find ways of
teaching the laity certain things which we want known about
material, including in the material not only the neglected and
unusual categories, but also well-established categories of
materials long known and used by the scholars but unappreciated
by the laity. At every step in initiating the public into this
matter, we encounter dangers. Right through our discussions in
the committee we can trace the continuous uncertainty in our
own minds as to how far we should emphasize collection and how
far destruction and how much responsibility for selection can
actually be placed upon the less highly trained individual.
This is not a prepared subject. We are not yet prepared to
teach anybody anything. We must have the help of those who
understand the School of Education and the School of Applied
Social Science and the Library School, and when we know what
we want to teach, then our campaign will be like that of the
Foreign Policy Association or the Child Health Society, some~
thing directed toward the people and not toward our colleagues
of the 'republic of letters'. This is my vision of a task of
education. The sub-committee would not engage in it but only
plan it.

I do not know whether you would agree that a task of
education lies before us to this extent. I realize that I
have presented these thoughts in what is perhaps too assertive
a language and I frankly confess that I have no fixed opinion
as to whether the same sub-committee that does this kind of
educating should also educate the scholars. I am greatly in
need of your help in thinking through this problem."

The instructions to the sub-committee on production will not be
hard to draft, but those of the sub-committee on inventory and
collection offer some difficulties.

ROBERT C. BINKLEY


