

March 24, 1939


Memorandum on Depository Policy

The learned world has depended for generations on
the book and periodical publishing trade to maintain the flow
of commmication. However, the bulk of documentation to be
currently communicated now exceeds the capacity of the trade
to carry and deliver, and of libraries to organize and admin~
ister. This problem arises not only in connection with the
reports of the International Studies Conferences, but also
in connection with the vast bulk of near-print documentation
issued from various governmental agencies and from agencies
of propaganda, as well as from agencies of research.

An adequate solution of the problem must economize
shelf space in libraries, and at the same time make documents
conveniently accessible to a maximum number of scholars. If
we could divide the United States into library regions, and
take into account the metropolitan concentrations of popula~
tion, I believe we would find that twenty or twenty-five
copies of any document could be so distributed through the
country that they would be within consultation distance for
eighty to ninety per cent of our scholars. By consultation
distance I mean that the document could be brought to the man
with sufficient speed to leave the rhythm of his work unbroken,
or the man could go to the document without a loss of time or
an expenditure of money that would throw his time budget or
his money budget out of balance.

It is probable that within each of these documentary
regions no one library would be willing to incur the tremendous
expense of shelving or administering all documents of the
class under consideration. But it is also quite possible
that within each of these library regions the libraries could
be brought to agree upon some basis of distribution and to
allow the distribution to take effect from one center according
to pre-established plans. Where local or regional union
catalogues have been made, as in Denver, Philadelphia, or
Cleveland, the union catalogue might be a convenient center
from which the documents should be distributed to the region.

This means that we would put the American scholarly
library system, in respect of a large class of materials, on
a depository basis. It would mean that those who issue docu~
ments under circumstances which do not permit them to give 
distribution through trade channels would have to renounce,
in respect of this minimum depository distribution, the pros~
pect of a return from sales price. The costs incurred by the
libraries in distributing, cataloguing, shelving and adminis~
tering the documents would be so substantial that willingness
to accept and deposit them would be a library contribution
to the issuer of the documents.

I think this is a question which can be settled more
easily in a large way than in a small way. I think that if we
has a list of mailing addresses and were able to say to any
one who issues near-print material that he wishes to make ac~
cessible to American scholars and publicists that, by sending
the material to these twenty or twenty-five addresses, his
responsibility would be ended and he would have achieved na~
tional distribution, we would rationally supplement trade
channels.

This would not exclude any additional distribution
or any additional sale; it would still leave the issuers of 
documents free to contact any public in any other way that
might seem wise. But there would be a certain minima easily
administered which would allow us to feel confident that much
work, now wasted through inadequate distribution, would here~
after be salvaged.

Robert C. Binkley



