

CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE OPERATION OF NEWSPAPER INDEXING
PROJECTS, INCLUDING THE MICROFILMING OF SELECTED NEWSPAPER
FILES


1. That a microfilm negative for preservation be made, at least of
so much of the newspaper file as is to be indexed, and of the
whole file if possible. The negative should be of uniform den~
sity, should be fixed to an approved minimum residual hypo, and
should have definition permitting the making of legible paper
enlargements without undue loss of definition.

2. That two microfilm copies be made from the negative.


3. That the negative, by whomsoever owned, be deposited with an
agency, approved by WPA at the time the project is approved,
which will offer safe storage facilities and which will agree
to make positive copies from the negative at reasonable cost.
The negative should not be used, however, to make copies of any~
thing less than a reel.

4. That of the two copies made from the negative, one (called the
service copy) be used to replace in service the newspaper file,
and the other (called the lending copy) be made available on
interlibrary loan. Service and lending copies may be kept at
one place locally, or the lending copy may be placed in the cus~
tody of a regional library center, such as a state library, or
in the custody of the Library of Congress; provided always that 
the institution accepting custody of the lending copy agrees to
administer it and to lend it in suitable portions, use on the
premises notwithstanding.

5. That a fully descriptive listing of the film be deposited with
the Library of Congress, Union Catalog Division, Washington, D.C.,
including the following information:

a) Exact citation of paper filmed
b) Location of negative and price of copies
c) Location of service copy
d) Location of lending copy

6. That the index, whether cumulated in annual or other units, be
      

        brought to page form, either in typescript, mimeograph, or
multigraph. If typescript, four copies are to be made (original
and three carbons), the first carbon to go to the Library of

Congress, and a copy to go with each film of the newspaper, so
that film copies of the index or a portion thereof can be made
on demand, or a volume of the index can be loanded by the insti~
tution administering the lending copy, and a volume can remain
with the service copy.

7. That there appear on the title page of the index, in whatever
form issued, a notation of the information given in Point 5.

(These conditions are devised to produce uniform handling of
newspaper microfilm copies wherever produced, to insure a complete
record of all film, to guard against the abuse of proprietary
rights in the negative film, and to give to all WPA operations
in this field a national as well as a local value.)


