

Memorandum on Simplified Research Techniques

December 16, 1935

This memorandum is a continuation and integration of three lines
of thought that have developed in the course of the work of the Joint
Committee on Materials for Research: (a) the idea of the restoration
of "amateur scholarship" as stated in the memorandum on New Tools, New
Recruits for the Republic of Letters, which has already been circulated
to the members of the Joint Committee; (b) the experience with the set~
ting up of Works Progress Administration research projects, the character
of which is indicated in a letter from Mr. Jacob Baker, Assistant Admin~
istrator of the Works Progress Administration; (c) a discussion on Dec~
ember 12 in the office of the American Council of Learned Societies on
broad matters of policy, with Dr. Leland, Dr. Mortimer Graves, Dr. T.R. 
Schellenberg, and Robert C. Binkley; Miss Barry acted as secretary.

I.

It is proposed that a study be made of simplified research tech~
niques to the end that there may be a better distribution of labor in
scholarship to accord with the varied capacities of individuals to do
research work, the varied degree to which individuals are free to con~
centrate their time upon research work, and the varied availability of
materials for research.

II.

Such a development of simplified research techniques should in~
crease the actual working personnel of American scholarship by drawing
more fully into it the following types of workers: (a) university, college,
and high school teachers who, because of limitations of time, materials,
or training, are not able to keep the pace set by the most advanced re~
search workers; (b) college graduates not engaged in any academic pro~
fession, but having at their disposal time and interest, and in some
cases, money, that can be devoted to scholarly purposes.

III.

The possibility of utilizing simplified research techniques is the
result of development in methods of reproducing research materials, which
have the following consequences: (a) near-print reproductions made at
low cost will circulate materials or products of research to limited num~
bers of scholars or research institutions without incurring the costs or
risks of publication; (b) micro-copying, by making it possible to duplicate
at very low cost any organized collection of data, has extinguished the

distinction hitherto so vital between collection of materials for re~
search and their publication. Any degree of preparation that can be
given to research materials by any workers, whether it be the mere
collection of documents, the organization of documetns, or the drawing
of preliminary conclusions from original data, can be made available
on demand to research workers at one step higher in the intellectual 
hierarchy, without great cost.

IV.

The explorations of the Joint Committee have shown that in all
probability present resources of scholarship, personal and financial,
are not adequate to preserve, organize, and develop the full corpus of
materials that should be in hand as the record of our civilization.

V.

Education: the schism in the intellectual world that resulted from
the preoccupation of those interested in pedagogy with methods of in~
struction at the expense of content of learning, and of research workers
in content at the expense of methods of instruction, has not strengthened
but has rather weakened American intellectual life. It has resulted in
a situation in which the teaching career, especially in the secondary
school, is made less attractive in terms of intellectual dignity than it
would need to be. It would seem that a good teacher at any level in the
school system could teach more effectively if she were able to illustrate
generalizations in history, social studies, or other fields from local
and familiar instances. But such illustrations presuppose a sound in~
vestigation of the local data in its relation to the general findings of
a discipline; and if such an investigation is made, its result is more
than teaching material; it is, in fact, an additional datum in the induc~
tive structure of the discipline.

VI.

Adult education: an objective of adult education is to continue the
educational process beyond the period of schooling, and to make it a
permanent part of a well rounded life. Some of the effort that is in~
volved in the program of adult education can perhaps be made useful not
alone to those adults who are the object of the process, but also to the
field of scholarship in which their interests lie.

VII.

A study of this problem need not interfere in any way with the de~
velopment of equally important plans for recruiting more men of genius
of the scholarly world and freeing them for more effective labor; rather
it will supplement efforts to develop higher scholarship by fostering the
collection of more data upon which such highly gifted individuals can
work, and by broadening the numbers from whom they may be selected.

VIII.

The experience of the Works Progress Administration, in its white-
collar projects department, had been a challenge to the American academ~
ic work which has not been fully met. As might have been predicted,
there were not many enterprises of scholarly value which could be under~
taken with present research technique by individuals of high school
education or its equivalent. The opportunity was presented to the scholarly
world to devise some way of providing the labor in scholarship that would
make the directed and disciplined efforts of large groups of people of
this type useful. The present work under way in such enterprises as the
Federal Writers' Projects should be studied carefully to draw from it any
lessons it may hold on the feasibility of new divisions of labor in
scholarship.

IX.
The first step to be taken in this direction should be, perhaps, an
exploratory conference, to be attended not only by a few well-chosen
leaders and well-chosen research scholars, but also by some people who
will represent the interests of education from the secondary to the adult level.

Robert C. Binkley

Chairman, Joint Committee
on Materials for Research


