

MEMORANDUM ON DEVELOPMENT OF APPARATUS IN MICROCOPYING

December 16, 1935

Conferences held in Washington, December 11 and 12 vy various
persons interested in the development of micro-copying resulted in
the following tentative proposals herewith circulated for review,
and approved on behalf of the Joint Committee on Materials for
Research by the Chairman and Executive Secretary.

I

Dr. Watson Davis of Science Service has kindly undertaken to
circulate memoranda and information on micro-copying to persons
interested in the development of the process. This memorandum and
others will therefore be cleared through him.

II

The most difficult problem now confronting thie nascent in~
dustry is that of design of projectors. The essentials are that
the projectors to be designed and put on the market shall be adapted
as much as may be technically possible to the reading of micro~
copies that may originate from all possible sources.

III

There are three media of micro-copying, to be considered:
paper, 35mm. film and 16mm. film. Since the use of paper does not
involve the need for a projector, it can be considered separately,
but the great convenience in filing paper micro-copies as compared
with film, and the relative cheapness of paper as against film,
indicate that paper must not be ignored in the micro-copying problem.
Dr. Bendikson of the Huntington Library, Dr. Dallas Irvine of the
National Archives, and the Folmer Graflex Corporation in the develop~
ment of their new copying camera are among those who have most care~
fully thought out the possibilities of micro-copying on paper.

IV

Related to the distinction between the 16mm. and the 35mm.
film, but not identical with the problem of the choice of film
width, is the problem of reduction ratio on film for projection.



The International Filmbook Corporation and the Recordak Corporation 
and the Recordak newspaper copying enterprises contemplate the use 
of 35mm. film with a high reduction retio (16 to 23 diameters, or 
over). Such high reduction ratios are also to be used on 16mm. film.
Lower reduction ratios are developed by users of the Leica camera
and by the Biblio Film Service of the Department of Agriculture, 
which uses the Draeger camera, especially in connection with the 
micro-copying of short items. Any reading equipment can easily be 
equipped with reel-holding devices that will take either 16mm or
35mm. film, and it should be a rule that designers are not encouraged
to develop apparatus that will not permit the use of either width of 
film. In connection with he problem of enlargement ratio, a differ~
ent situation exists. 

V

Projecting equipment, granted that it is adapted to both 16mm.
and 35mm. film, will vary in the following essential particulars:

a. It may be fixed focus or variable focus. The Recordak
equipment has a fixed enlarging ratio of 22 diameters.
The projective Folmer Graflex equipment will have a varying
enlargement ratio that can be set at will. Each of these
methods has its advantages and disadvantages.

b. Some reading equipment throws the imege on a screen from
which it 1s reflected back to the eye; other equipment
throws the image through a semi-translucent screen. The
Recordak and Folmer Graflex will be of the first type. The
translucent reading machines will be the International
Filmbook apparatus, the Draeger projection reader, possibly
the machine put on sale by the Leitz Company, and possibly
the machine to be developed by the Spencer Lens Company.

c. Reading machines differ in the size of aperture; that is to
say, in the amount of film they will enlarge for reading
at one time. The Leica projector takes a double frame of
35mm. film, 1" x 1½". The aperture of the Spencer Lens
Company projector now contemplated will be a single frame,
¾" x 1"; that of the Recordak is one-quarter of a frame;
and that of the International Filmbook Corporation may be
even less. In general, there is a relationship between
size of aperture and enlargement power, because if the
aperture is only one-quarter of a frame it will not permit
the reading of lines of print that have been micro-copied
to extend across the full width of 35mm. film.

VI

Material that has been micro-copied on 16mm. film at a high
reduction ratio can be printed off on 35mm. film at a lower reduction
ratio; material that has been micro-copied on 25mm. film at a low



reduction ratio can be copied off on 16mm. film at a high reduction
ratio. This fact is of vital importanoe because it permits the
purchaser of a low power projecting apparatus to order copies of
any long run of 16mm. high reduction film (as the NRA and AAA
records) in a form that he can read. Conversely, the purchaser of 
a small aperture, high reduction ratio projector can utilize mater~
ial that was originally copied with a low reduction ratio on 35mm.
film, if he has it printed off on the reduced size.

VII

Taking into account the foregoing facts and possibilities, it 
would appear that the following developments in projection apparatus
can be integrated into a common system and so arranged that the
products of any micro-copying enterprise could be made available
to the projectors of any apparatus, with a few exceptions that will
be noted:

a. Double frame aperture, low enlarging pwwer -- Leica
(now available but costly).

b. Single frame aperture, fixed focus, 14 diameter
enlarging power, reading by transmitted light --
under development by Dr. Draeger.

c. One-half frame aperture, 22 diameter enlarging
power, fixed focus, reading by reflected light --
Recordak apparatus.

d. Vartiable aperture, variable enlarging power, reading
by reflected light -- Folmer Graflex machine.

e. One-quarter frame aperture, very high enlarging power,
fixed focus, transmitted light -- International
Filmbook Corporation development.

VIII

Large-scale copying enterprises, such as the proposed micro-
copying of books published prior to 1640, can be made on either
35mm. or 16mm. film, either at a high reduction ratio (as 16, 20, 23)
or a low reduction ratio (as 9 to 14 diameters). If the master copy
is made in a low reduction ratio, the possessors of Recordak or
International Filmbook apparatus would merely purchase their film in
a reduction on 16mm. film. If the original is made at a high re~
duction ratio on 16mm. film, the possessors of the Draeger, Leica,
and presumably Folmer Graflex apparatus would purchase it in the
enlarged form on 25mm. film. The newspaper material now being
by the Recordak Corporation in a reduction of 16 diameters can be
read presumably on any one of four reading machines: the Draeger


projector will enlarge it back 14 diameters, at some loss of legi~
bility, but it will show the full width of the newspaper page; the
Recordak projector will show only one-quarter of a page, but enlarge
it above original size; the International Filmbook machines will
presumably show less than one-quarter of the area of the newspaper
page, but may give it even more enlargement than the Recordak;
Folder Graflex can presumably be adapted to the reading of this
type of film. Micro-copies produced like the NRA and AAA series can
be read presumably directly and without change on the Recordak
International Filmbook and Folmer Graflex equipment. For reading 
on the Draeger, Leica and Spencer Lens projectors, they would be 
reproduced for the purchaser in 35mm. width, making the reduction
equivalent to 11½ diameters rather than 23 diameters. The short
strips of film now being distributed by the Biblio Film Service in
reductions of 9 or 10 diameters can presumably be read on all 
projection apparatus except that of the International Filmbook
Corporation, and doubtless if special instructions are given for
the filming of such strips by the Blblio Film Service they can be
adapted even to the International Filmbook projector.

IX


Conclusion: it is submitted that this array of equipment will
provide for the reading of any film now being used, or likely to be
used, with present techniques, except such copies made at very high
reduction on multiple exposure on 35mm. film. Such copies would
be legible only in the Recordak and International Filmbook apparatus.

The recipients of this memorandum are invited to communicate
their views upon it to Dr. Watson Davis of Science Service and Dr.
Robert C. Binkley, Chairman of the Joint Committee on Materials
for Research. Those who are especially interested in the possi~
bilities of micro-copying on paper are invited to write also to
Dr. Dallas Irvine at the National Archives.



