
MEMORANDUM ON WOODSON'S PROJECT FOR coLLECTING
DOCUMENTS ON NEGRO HISTORY.

I. Woodson's plan in relation to the general problem of the
      

        Joint Committee on materials for research.

The Committee will probably be called upon to evaluate three
kinds of needs:

1) The need for the accomplishment of a definite research
      

        task. Some research work, urgently needed for practical
reasons, or because of its strategic place in research
generally, cannot be done without making a special collection
of material. The financing of such collecting should be
dependent upon the financing of the research project itself --
(as with the Law Enforcement Commission).

Our Committee may interest itself in these projects to the
extent that it may be possible to secure permanent archives
as a by-product thereof, but the evaluation or endorsement
of projects on this basis is evidently not for us.

2) The need for the organising of materials. Some fields
of research may be entirely neglected, or others inadequately
worked, because the material is scattered, uncatalogued,
unknown, although safe and accessible. This work can be done
partly by bringing together materials now separated, (as the
Library of Congress copies foreign archives) or listing
accessible material in scattered depositories, as the Wilson
Company is doing with Government Document lists.

3) The need for protection of materials from total loss.
Some material of value for research is in danger of ir~
reparable loss because of the (1) physicsl decomposition of
the paper upon which it is written, (2) the death of witnesses
who leave no written testimony, (3) the acts of custodians
who lose or destroy papers or any articles of value in
scholarly research (burning of old papers, junking of old
machinery, etc. ).

The protection of research materials from this type of
loss has two aspects: (1) the organizing of the custodianship
of contemporary materials for preservation for the future
(collection of ephemeral printed matter by local libraries);
(2) the collecting of "old papers" or other items which are
in the hands Of individual owners, and their safe deposit
in libraries, archives or museums.

Mr. Woodson's project falls into two of these divisions:
it involves partly the accumulating of material which is
in danger of loss because of faulty custodianship, and
partly the organizing of material which is in no danger of
destruction but which is relatively scattered and in~
accessible.

II. Survey of the fields and agencies for the collection of
      

        manuscript material.

As a basis for the endorsement or non endorsement of
Woodson's project, we are asked to formulate an appraisal
of the various fields for the collection of manuscript
material. I take it that this appraisal is to apply only
to the type of material which is threatened with loss
because of its custodianship, and not with the organizing
or copying of materials already in the safe custody of
libraries, archives or other institutions.

To set this problem before ourselves in its entirety we
must take account of three elements: the present possessors
of material, the types of material, the agencies of collect~
ion and deposit.

1) The possessors whom it is desired to reach. Most owners
whom it might be desireable to reach regard papers in their
possession simply as "old papers" which they value for
reasons quite foreign to those which excite the interest of
the scholar. From the standpoint of the owner, the class~
ifications into such subheads as "economic", "political",
"literary remains" etc., are of little significance. There~
fore an estimate of the fields in which material is to be
gathered must classify not only types of material, but types
of owners from whom material of any or all kinds is to be
sought.

The following types of owners would appear to be most
important: --

a) Old families, long resident in the same locality, in
possession of a home in which papers have accumulated by
accident and accretion.

b) People who treasure the papers left by some more or
less distinguished ancestor or relative.

c) Business houses to which old papers are simply "dead
files", often sacrificed because of the cost of storage space.

d) It may be true that negroes and immigrants, for
the reasons cited in Woodson's letter, and in a way
exemplified in Thomas and Zusnecki's study of the Polish
peasant, are the custodians of materials which should be
collected.

These old papers suffer a special danger of loss or
destruction every time their owner moves, and this risk
is especially high when the owners are poor, or when the
material is stored in places where space is at a premium.

2) Field to be covered, by subject matter. The Committee
on Problems and Policy realizes, of course, that an
appraisal by subject matter of the materials which research
workers in all fields will wish to have preserved will be
largely based on guess and audacity. In a general way, one
could say that a sampling of everything committed to writing
should find its way to some institution which will preserve
it for the future.

The basic generalized source of information on our life
is of course newspaper. Beyond that the following list
of subjects is not too comprehensive for the total program
of manuscript collection, taken as a local as well as a
national program, and covering all periods, including the
contemporary.

Economic:

Some business records of every important local
industry. Correspondence of business men and
labor leaders. Corporation archives.

Social:

Family or personal letters, or love letters,
representative of different levels of groups of
society, at different periods, -- (farmers,
immigrants, negroes, local aristocracy, etc.

Art -- Literature -- Music:

Theature and musical programs
Literary remains of local writers

Education:

School records
Samples of school essays, copybooks, etc.

Political:

Addresses of political groups or societies
Correspondence of political leaders

Religion:

Sermons and church account books

3) Agencies and institutions for collection and deposit.
Institutions and agencies already in existence, and living
on their own budgets, already cover much of this collecting
field. Some of these institutions may be lacking in industry
in collecting material, others may fail to appreciate the
value of material accessible to them because they view their
task too narrowly. The survey undertaken by the Committee
will help to make it possible to estimate how far existing
institutions are insufficient, what types of material are
not being collected, what categories of possessors of manu~
scripts are not being approached. Probably the only adequate
coverage of the field of manuscript collecting will be
worked out in terms of institutions rather than projects.

The following types of collecting institutions or agencies
seem to have outstanding importance in a general survey:

a) Public archives or libraries, historical societies,
research institutes, etc. The only point to be made here
is with respect to the adequate assumption by these institut~
ions of responsibility for collecting and storing manuscript
material, and the rational apportionment of the work.

b) The private collector. From the standpoint of larger
strategy his place is peculiar. When he has made his
collection he has already rescued the material from careless
destruction. By purchasing it from him and depositing it in
public institutions we are rendering it more useful and
safer. Moreover, we are establishing a market value for
collections which may halt the careless destruction of
documents. But since many private collections, having
occupied the interest of their owner during his lifetime,
find their way to some public or institutional place of
deposit without cost, and other private collections are
accessible to students during the lifetime of the owners,
the purchase of a private collection does not have the same
kind of importance as the acquisition of manuscripts from
some casual owner.

c) The corporation, industrial and professional
organizations in whose records we are interested.

These may be widened to take more of the scholar's
attitude toward the preservation of their own records, and
to extend their interest even to the accumuluation of other
materials relating to their activiites. Every industry
and labor groups has its national organization. There is
need in the general plan for the assumption of archive
responsibilities by these bodies themselves. Great corp~
orations to have Record Offices like governments; big
steel men to found archives on the steel industry, etc.

4) Application to Mr. Woodson's project. Since Mr. Woodson's
request relates to a project rather than an institution, we
are justified in basing recommendation, not upon an appraisal
of the entire field of manuscript collection, but upon a
speculative estimate of the extent to which special approp~
riations from the reserve resources of scholarship are
wanted for special projects, or new financial undertakings
from outside are necessary.

The need for special projects sponsored by the general
representatives of scholarship arises especially:

a) When the group involved lacks leadership or the
social and financial resources necessary for the preservation
of its own records. The Hereditary Patriotic and Historical
Societies take care of the records and papers of prominent
statesmen or well established families. Negroes and immi~
grants are at once more likely to lose their papers, and less
well provided with institutions for caring for them.

b) When a kind of collecting has been long neglected,
so that some special effort is needed, after which the ordinary
institution can continue the collecting of material in the
ordinary way, by casual gift, bequest, etc.

c) A special case of neglect is that of the material not
generally understood to have historical importance, and hence
left out of account in the organization of the archives of
civilization. Business records are a case in point. (In
this case funds for acquisition projects should be sought from
business itself.)

d) After the survey of existing archives and agencies
of collection is complete, regional and topical lacunae in
the existing set-up will appear. These will have to be filled


in, and where special sources of support cannot be tapped,
appeal must be made to the general funds of scholarship.

Mr. Woodson's project claims endorsement under heads
a and b.

III. Principles under which an endorsement of Woodson's project
      

        can be based.

Woodson's project, seen in its relation to the total
field of interest of the Committee, occupies a small but
definite place. But not all parts of the project are
equally valuable from the standpoint of larger strategy. 

That part of the project which involves the copying of
material from State and foreign archives is of secondary
importance. It comes within that part of our field of
interest which relates to the organizing of information
about existing archives, and the classifying of materials
already safely deposited. It is not clear that Woodson's
project works out the whole problem of the organization of
archive materials on negro history. Certainly one cannot
do a thorough job in the European archives with the funds
here requested, to say nothing of the State Archives! The
job of copying from archives, if done at all, should be
done with the degree of thoroughness that characterizes
the photographing of foreign archives now going on under
the direction of the L.C. Manuscript Division. If Dr.
Jameson thinks this plan will do as thorough a job, I
would favor endorsing it, though not regarding it as
urgent in the same degree as the other part of Woodson's
project. Archive materials are at least safe where they
are.

That part of the project which involves the securing of
originals or copies of manuscripts from negro families
seems to me to be of the highest importance, because this
is the material most likely to be lost, and because an
effort in this direction may have permanent after-effects
in stimulating further enterprises of collecting by the
negroes themselves.

In recommending the use of money for this purpose we
should be able to give assurance that the best methods of
collecting are being used, and the most appropriate de~

pository selected. 

As to methods of collection, I hope that those in charge 
of the research project will not take too great pains to 
get originals when they can get photostat copies, and that 
they will look into the method of copying archives used 
by Martin in the manuscript division of the Library of 
Congress. It will be much easier to get permission to 
photograph diaries, papers, etc., than to walk off with 
the papers themselves.

As to the place of deposit, the Library of Congress has 
the advantage -- a very great one from the standpoint of 
the man who is begging gifts -- that it is a national 
public institution. Even if its collection on negro 
history is less complete than that which is to be found 
elsewhere, I would reoommend that it be chosen as the 
depository. 


        Conclusion. 

If the maximum responsibility to be taken in endorsing 
a project would be, following Dr. Wilson's formula "to 
say that this is not only a good project but a highly 
strategic project, and requests a sum of money entirely 
seasonable in view of its importance," we need not assume 
this responsibility except in exceptional cases. 

A lesser degree of responsibility in endorsement would 
be more easily given. We can say of a project for the 
collection of material 

1) That it fits in with the general plan 
2) That it does not duplicate the work of any other agency equally or better equipped to do it. 
3) That the means proposed are adapted to the end. 
4) That the end itself is highly desirable. 

That part of Woodson's project which has to do with the 
search for documents among American negroes, is worth this 
second kind of endorsement. Of the search for materials 
in the archives I am not sure that we can approve it under 
point 2, for there may lie other agencies better equipped
for doing this work.

Robert C. Binkley

18 July, 1930.


