

MEMORANDUM ON FUTURE PLANS FOR FEDERAL WRITERS' PROJECTS

June 10, 1936

1) Mimeograph or other near-print reproduction: The writers should
be assured that their product will be multiplied and not lost view as
simple typescript. Since printing is inaccessible with most of their
product, mimeograph must suffice. Materials cost in editions of 100 for
wax stencil mimeographing is only $.09½ a page (including cost of sten~
cil, ink, and copy paper). The project can reproduce and distribute to
libraries in usable form everything that is written. This will give the
librarians, who have been helping in the preparation of the American
Guide, a tangible gift.

2) The prospect of mimeographing or other near-print reproduction
makes possible a new slant on the type of work to be done. The writers
can now concentrate on bringing new facts to light. Hitherto they have
been in general selectors fron among the facts now available. They
have worked at the level of popularization for widespread publication.
In their new work, in which they will issue in limited editions, their
aim should be to add new information from hitherto unused sources to
the stock of information that is now available in libraries.

3) Concretely, this would mean that they would work as far as pos~
sible from archives, old newspapers, and manuscripts, in preparation of
local histories. Most "county histories" are notoriously shallow. The
Federal Writers would do nothing of value if they rewrite material from
county histories. They should be warned specifically, "keep away from
the county histories". They should seek to avoid as much as possible
the inclusion in their own writings of material that already is available
in book form. Let them go to the original sources. Better bring to
light a series of interesting facts hitherto unknown than to make a
rearrangement of known material.

4) The bibliographical work of the Guide (so far as I have observed
it) has quite properly been built upon existing library catalogue ser~
vices, reference services, etc. In the new program, the Federal Writers
should be in a position to add to local bibliography a great bulk of
information not now in the hands of the librarians. Specifically, they
can go through the periodical literature of America, notably the tech~
nical, trade, labor, and religious publications and note all localized
material. Through the national organization, the localized bibliograph~
ical entries can be cleared and put in the possession of the district
supervisors. One issue of the Inland Printer will have articles about
business in a dozen different cities. Each of these articles showld be
noted and evaluated and brought to the files of the Federal Writers man
in the city or town named. A comprehensive list of American periodicals
can be copied and farmed out among the writers. For certain periodical
titles, the Wilson Union List of Periodicals in American Libraries will
serve as a guide. But an important class of trade, technical, and re~
ligious publications are not entered in Wilson's Union List. For those
a supplementary list must be made.

5) For many librarians have been asking for a revision of
Larned's "Literature of American History", which was compiled about 1900
and is much out of date.  Under CWA and FERA, Dr. Louis Hacker, a very
competent American scholar in New York, supervised the first steps of
the preparation of such an edition. With a corps of workers, he went
through learned and semi-learned, scholarly and semi-scholarly period~
dical literature, making abstracts of reviews of books on American history.
He planned tht bibliography to present the broadest conception of his~
tory, as inclusive of such subjects as labor, culture, etc. Forty
thousand cards were made and brought together when the work was stopped.
It had to be given up because the New York Public Library had reached
the limit of its ability to give space and materials for the task.
This task is a challenge to the highest abilities in the Writers' Pro~
ject. Its successful completion will require the utmost critical acu~
men, power of selection, knowledge of intellectual currents of the day.
It is not in any sense of the word a clerical task. I think a super~
visory committee of scholars could be appointed, and I think you could
arrange with Dr. Hacker to have him take a hand, and I am absolutely
certain that if Federal Writers in the course of the next year could
compile this revision, this new comprehensive national bibliography,
they would earn the gratitude of every librarian in the country. The
American Library Association would publish it. The librarians have
been of great assistance to the Federal Writers in the past; this would
be a return favor of no small magnitude. I hope that you can take it on.

6) As to newspapers, I think the work of indexing, digesting, and
calendaring them should at this time be experimental with a none-too-
high standardization technique. Nobody in the country really knows the
best way of overcoming the difficulties in the use of newspaper mater~
ial, -- the difficulties that derive from their vast extent and heteroge~
neous character. I should be very glad to send you some copies of the
manual on making a newspaper digest, which records the result of experi~
ence in Cleveland, and I hope that a number of experiments on different
scales will be made throughout the country during the coming year, by
the Federal Writers in some cases, by local project sponsors in others.

Robert C. Binkley


