

FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEMS IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF RESULTS OF RESEARCH.

By Robert C. Binkley

Joint Committee on Materials for Research

I.

A typescript thesis is a "rare book". From the standpoint of
library administration it is nothing else. Micro-copying that
will make rare books available will make typescript theses avail~
able to whomsoever wants them.

The special problem in making these theses available to
users is no longer mechanical, but has to do with bibliographical
listing. If a unique copy of a book is deposited in any library
having micro-copying equipment, it becomes available to any li~
brary or person having micro-reading equipment.

To the extent that micro-reading equipment becomes a part of
normal library equipment, micro-copying will make theses available.
It cannot be anticipated that libraries will install this equip~
ment for the sole purpose of making it possible to use deposited
theses. The installation is likely to come about because micro-
copying and the reading of micro-copies meet other library problems.

II. 

If the thesis, or other product of research, is to be multi~
plied in book form, the cost of multiplying it may be assessed
against author, or against the library or person who acquires the
book, or distributed between them.

If the author bears the whole cost of multiplying the book
and distributes it free of charge to libraries, no act of ap~
praisal of the book is necessary except that which the receivers of the book will perform in deciding whether to shelve the gift 
or put it in the waste basket.

If the people who are to acquire the book are to be asked to 
contribute toward the cost of multiplying it, the work of ap~
praising must precede their decision to assume part of the cost
of multiplying.

At present this appraising is done in two ways. The most
common is that used in the publishing trade. An editor appraises
a manuscript and makes a decision to publish; then reviewers step
in, and on the basis of their reviews purchasers make there decision.

Sometimes the editors assume so much responsibility, as in
bringing out a series, that the purchasers do no await the second
appraisal made by reviewers. This is the second of the two systems
now in use.


These methods do not place a large proportion of the cost on
the purchasers of books; the author of a Ph.D, dissertation bears
most of the cost.

Both of these methods of appraising books and distributing
their cost between authors and buyers leave a large margin of risk.
While they have been developed in connection with the technique of
printing, they are not necessarily tied to that technique.

A third arrangement would be possible. The appraising of the
book could be made, not only prior to the multiplying of it, but
prior even to the distribution of its cost between author and
purchasers. This is the system proposed in a memorandum of the
Joint Committee on a publishing service. Under this scheme, the
amount contributed by the purchasers for each copy, and by the
author toward the whole edition, would be calculated after a circu~
larization of possible purchasers had measured the demand.

III.

There are two functions in connection with the distribution of
the results of research which are more intellectual than mechanical.
The first is the entering of information regarding the research
product in bibliographical guides; the second is the appraising of
the merit of the research product. This work is done by professional
scholars, who may or may not be remunerated for it.

The two functions are related. A bibliographical entry implies
a degree of appraisal; at least the research product must be assumed
to relate to the topic under which it is entered. This amount of
appraising can be left to the author or, in the case of Ph.D. theses,
to those under whom the work was done.

The more complete appraising that is necessary before asking
purchasers to contribute toward the cost of multiplying a book is
not so properly left to the author or his adviser.

IV.

No matter what techniques of reproduction are used in multi~
plying a text, these problems of appraisal and assessment of cost
arise.

The rational use of these available techniques requires, however,
that the intellectual elements of the distributing process, namely
bibliographical entry and appraisal, should be made available re~
gardless of the technique of multiplying.

V.

The cost levels of various techniques are approximately as
follows:

A. Typescript with carbon copies. This cost is always as~
sessed against the author in its entirety. If it is accompanied

by deposit in a library offering micro-copying service, micro-
copies become available to readers at a cost varying from 25¢
to $1.50 per hundred pages. These prices are available at the
present time; they may be lowered.

B. Multiplying by the hectograph, with one or two copies
made with permanent record ribbon or carbon, and fifty to a
hundred in methyl violet hectograph ink. This process will
cost the author three or four times as much as the cost of mak~
ing his typescript as described above, not taking into account
costs of binding.

C. Multiplying with mimeograph. In this case the copies
will all be in permanent ink. The cost for a hundred copies
will be five to six times as much as the cost of the typescript
and carbon, and will begin to approach the cost level of the
photo-offset technique.

D. Multiplying with photo-offset. The cost of this pro~
cess approaches, and in some cases, passes that of the cheap~
est printing techniques.

E. Printing. The manufacturing costs of a printed book
are usually calculated to include a number of other costs,
notably those of appraisal and sale, because this technique
is associated with an effort to secure contributions toward
the cost from purchasers.


