

April 6, 1939

W.P.A. Newspaper
Indexing and
Micro-copying

The white-collar work relief program has given the
custodians of American newspaper files an opportunity and
a responsibility. The opoortunity is to make the contents
of those files useful beyond anything we have hitherto
imagined; the responsibility is to do the job with careful
engineering and greatest economy of effort.

Of two alternatives in the future of this country
one is certain: either there will be such substantial
reëmployment in private industry that the problem of
unemployment will cease to be a matter of pressing public
concern, or there will be, either continuously or peri~
odically, large groups of unemployed who will constitute
a social problem. If there are to be in the future such
large groups of unemployed, of two things one is certain:
either they will be kept alive without work or work relief
will be provided for them. If work relief is to be pro~
vided for them, then the relief program must include
work for white-collar workers because white-collar
people constitute an increasing proportion of employable
labor and there is no social advantage to be gained in
trying to retrain them for physical labor since unem~
ployment hits both classes equally and reëmployment
attracts both classes in equal degree.

The technical problem confronting those who share
responsibility for maintaining cultural institutions in
this country is to utilize white-collar labor to get
maximal social value from it. The common denominator
of clerical skill is an ability to work with records,
to improve them, to make the information in them publicly
accessible. The records to be worked with consist of
two vast reservoirs -- archives and newspaper files. The
archives have hitherto been unorganized, uninventoried
and subject to accidential destruction. Work relief
labor is organizing the archival resources of the country.

The Newspaper Resources of the country in the form
of mewspaper files are less useful than they should be for
three reasons: first, the holdings are so scattered
through the country that someone wishing to consult a
given list of newspaper files might have to travel at
great expense from place to place; second, the contents
of the mewspaper files is not indexed and the labor of
getting information from them is therefore very great;
third, the newspaper files of the period since 1870 are
of perishable paper rapidly disintegrating so that in
many cases a few searchings of a newspaper file will 
destroy it for further use.

A comprehensive and well-planned use of relief
labor can remedy all these conditions. The technique
must be one of indexing and of micro-copying. If a
newspaper file is micro-copied, the negative film can
be placed somewhere on deposit so that anyone desiring
a copy of the file can procure it by having it made
for him. It would be desirable also that two positives
be made from that negative, one of them to replace in
service the file from which the film was made, and
the other to be available for interlibrary loan. Micro-
copying handled in this fashion would not only preserve
newspaper files but would render them nationally ac~
cessible. This procedure hes been approved by the
Americen Library Association Committee on Photographic
Reproduction.

A more difficult problem but one equally important
is the indexing of the files. The index, of course,
when made can be micro-copied and made accessible in
exactly the same way as the original file. But the
technique of indexing is one that presents many new
problems. The best example of a successful newspaper
indexing technique is undoubtedly the New York Times
      

        Index, but the conditions under which it is prepared
cannot be reproduced in most cases when relief labor
is to be used in indexing. This is for three reasons:
first, the workers on the N.Y.T. Index have copies
of the newspaper which they can mark, cut up, and
destroy in the course of their indexing operation.
The indexing of back files with WPA labor must be
done from unique bound volumes, carefully nursed at
every stage of operation. Second, the workers in the
N.Y.T. Index merely keep up to date with the publica~
tion of the newspaper. Their rate of speed is given
to them. The relief workers must plan to carry the
indexing process more rapidly through many years and

through periods when newspaper style differed from that
which obtains today. Third, the staff of indexers working
in the N.Y.T. Index is a highly-trained group of specialiats,
each of whom takes care of a certain class of newspaper
material, whereas the workers available in work relief
are semi-skilled workers for the bulk of whom it is not
practical to attempt to reproduce the training that lies
behind the N.Y.T. Index efforts.

To meet the new situation a new conception of opera~
tions has been evolved which differs from that previously
used as the factory system differs from the craft system
in industrial production. Large numbers of semi-skilled
workers must have their operations so coordinated and
checked that their product has the virtues of accuracy
and standardization, which the craftsman through his
individual training gives to his product.

A large number of indexing operations have been
undertaken by relief labor. They have followed various
principles and produced results of varied character.
One of the leading attempts to solve this problem is
being made at Milwaukee. A group of projects is opera~
ting in Ohio; in Northampton, Oklahoma, Texas and
Savannah, operations are also under way. The experience
gained in these various operations ought now to be
brought to a point and shared.

The problem divides itself into two parts; first,
what is it that is desired in a newspaper index; second,
how can this desired result be obtained with the means
offered by the availability of relief labor. It is
possible that some things that may be desirable are
not obtainable with relief labor.

Newspaper indexing has a problem somewhat dif~
ferent from book indexing, first, because in newspapers
the index is not paralleled by a table of contents,
and second, because of the very bulk and heterogeneity
of the content of the newspapers. The newspaper index
must first of all enable a user of the newspaper to
economize his reading time by directing him to a speci~
fic page of the newspaper for information which he
desires. Second, it should economize his time by
informing him that he need not make an independent
search of the newspaper file for some item he is seeking.
The user should be able to go to the index with a cer~
tain problem and on consulting the index learn one
of three things: either the location of the pertinent

item, or the fact that the item he is searching for is
not to be found in the newspaper, or that the item he
is searching for may be in the newspaper, the index being
inconclusive on the matter. No index can meet all possible
questions regarding the content of the newspaper file,
but the scope of the index can be so definite that a
person using it will know what type of item it controls
and what type of item it fails to control.

This being the problem of a newspaper index, the
planning of the index falls into three parts: first,
the decision as to what material within the newspaper
is to be controlled and what left uncontrolled; second,
the maintenance of checked accuracy as between the index
entry and the item indexed; third, the maintenance of
such standardization of entry that the user of the index
will find the references to material he is seeking actu~
ally brought together in the index in appropriate units
and not dispersed (the material on Oil should all be
under "Petroleum" or "Oil" but not split between the
two headings.)

In deciding on the scope of the index, the most
extreme comprehensiveness would include everything that
has been printed -- advertising, news and editorials. A
more restricted scope would include only news and edi~
torials; a still more restricted scope would be limited
to news about local or regional events, and editorial
expressions of opinions; a still more restricted scope
would limit the index to news about local events and
opinion about local events. Even within the narrowest
of these areas further exclusions are possible. Various
decisions are possible in respect of treatment of fea~
ture material and regularly recurring parts of the news~
paper, such as the market page. But the main require~
ment of a sound indexing technique is that there be a
clear cut distinction made between that which is included
and that which is excluded, and that this be understood
all along the line by all the workers who make the
index and that it be notified in some way to the users
of the index.

When the decision has been reached as to what
particular items in the newspaper are to be subject
to the indexing procedure, there still remains open
a problem of defining the intensity of indexing of each
separate article. This issue comes up practically in
dealing with proper names. If a news story mentions
a dozen names of men and the names of two or three

corporations, what principles of selection are to obtain?
Unless these are clearly stated and understood alike by
worker and user, the user of the index will never know
whether on the one hand he may rely on the indexers'
searching or on the other hand, he must search the whole
file anew for himself. In meeting this problem one
extreme, followed at Savannah, is to take every proper
name. In covering early American newspaper files which
are small this scheme is practical, but it would break
down in the bulky modern file. Another method of making
the elimination is to ask the question in respect of
every account of an event: "Who did what to whom?"
and the story, reduced to its skeleton form, will often
bring out the essential proper names and exclude the
non-essentials. In general this has been one of the 
weakest spots in relief labor indexing, and more experi~
ence is needed to find the right answer.

Accuracy is of two kinds: the first is the mechani~
cal accuracy of making correct date, page and column
references; the second, is more difficult. A story of
1000 words length is to be reduced to an essential seven
or eight words which will tell the user of the index
whether he ought to look at the original item. If these
few words touch on an inconsequential part of the story
and avoid the more significant part, the entry is sub~
stantially and for purposes of use inaccurate. It would
be much simpler to work out a routine for this kind of 
accuracy if it were possible to mark and destroy files
during the indexing operation. That possibility being
excluded, two methods have been evolved. One of them
sets an indexer to work to make as many index entries
as there seem to be main points in the story; this man
is then followed up by another who checks the judgment
of the first with this own judgment. A second method
divides the labor differently. This is used in a Texas
project. The worker answers in respect of a story the
journalist's basic questions, -- "who, where, when, what,
why" -- in briefest possible space. This summarization
is then checked for accuracy, and the indexing operation
which breaks it down into appropriate index entries,
New York Times Index style, is done at the next level
of operations. This act of compression tends to squeeze
out automatitcally the non-essential proper names. In
all cases the first stage in a newspaper indexing opera~
tion transfers from the newspaper page to separate slips
of paper highly compressed information which must then
be run through a checking operation to control its ac~
curacy.

The next problem to be solved is the standardization
of entry and arrangement. There would be three conceivable
arrangements for the references controlling the content of
a newspaper file: chronological, logical, and alphabetical.
The first is often used in controlling manuscript material
(the calendar); the second is the arrangement corresponding
to the table of contents of a book and is exemplified in
a thesaurus or in a shelf list of a library; the third is
exemplified in the dictionary or a library's dictionary
catalogue. By an index we mean the latter type of arrange~
ment.

An alphabetical arrangement depends necessarily
upon the choice of words governing the alphabetical
arrangement, and the words to be chosen fall into two
classes for indexing purposes. The first class and the
most easily arranged is that of proper names, the names
of individual people, of places, of buildings, of corpora~
tions. No subjective element of decision need enter into
the alphabetical form of a proper name. The rules for
corporate names can be made and enforced. An index
would be very useful even if it consisted solely of proper
name entries alphabetioally arranged, and followed by a
few words expanding the index entry. Book indexes are
frequently made in that way. The more difficult problem
arises in what are called subject entries, where a com~
mon noun must stand in its alphabetical place as a finding
point for a number of entries. How is that common noun
to be chosen? If it is left to the judgment of a large
number of independent workers to choose the common noun
which will stand as the subject entry for each of their
stories, the index will have relatively low value because
the user may not be able to guess the word that occurred
to the mind of the indexer. In the choice of these words,
the rules and policies adopted in index-making vary in
two ways; the first variation is between rigidity and
subjective judgment. If the list of subject words is
unduly rigid, some of them will prove inappropriate;
if the list is made unduly elastio, the user will have
to guess his way through the index. The second varia~
tion occurs in distinguishing between the more general
and the more specific type of subject entry. If the
principle of using the general words is carried to an
extreme, the arrangement becomes more and more logical
rather than alphabetical; if the principle of specific
words is carried to an extreme, the index will not actu~
ally bring together the things that ought to stand together.
In both cases a right line must be taken between the
two extremes, and the one supreme virtue is consistency.

Definiteness in scope, accuracy in transcription, consis~
tency in the treatment of headings -- these are the virtues
of an index, and particularly of a newspaper index. 

The most important model for newspaper indexing is,
of course, the New York Times Index. There is however
another principle of arrangement followed in the control
of scientific literature which may bprove to have its place
in control of the content of newspapers. In Chemical
Abstracts and Biological Abstracts the journal literature
in those sciences is abstracted; the abstracts are arranged
and indexed. A person consulting the control may turn
first to the index, and there make his first selection as
to what he wishes to consult; from the index he may move
to the abstract, where he can make a second selection,
for the abstract tells him enough about the original
article so that he knows whether it will be worth his
time to procure it for consultation. The application of
this principle to newspaper work was suggested by Solon
J. Buck, director of publications of the National Archives,
and an experiment with it was made in a Cleveland W.P.A.project.

In the arrangement of the index items there is another
vital decision to be made, namely the period of cumulation.
An index cumulated annually has certain points of conveni~
ence as against an index of longer cumulation for those
users who recognize their problems as falling within a
given year. An index of longer cumulation has other values.
Inconsistencies in topical arrangement will give rise to
greater inconvenience in a long cumulation than in a short
one for it is more difficult in the long cumulation to
consult a large number of topical entries. There are many
uses of the index, however, which involve the tracing of
a particular name over a long period of time. If, as in
the case of a proper name, there is no possible variation
in form of entry, the long-term cumulation shows up its
superiorities.

II.

When the decision has been made as to what kind of
index is desired, the problem of using WPA labor as a
means of making it becomes one of engineering and office
management. If it happened that newspaper indexing were
a long-established profession in the country and that there
were a large number of unemployed newspaper indexers the
approach made to this problem would be very different
from that which is now necessary. The key to success in
the use of relief labor is the rigorous definition and


coordination of a series of tasks in factory style, and
these tasks must be so planned that they are within the
competence of the workers actually available. The organi~
zation of relief labor permits of certain specific clas~
sifications of relief workers. These must be understood
by anyone planning a project in a practical way. The rules
governing labor classification allow of no more than four
grades, from junior clerk to professional worker. The
number of supervisory positions at higher rates of pay
than the professional workers can receive is strictly
limited. In the planning of work the balance of duties
must be so arranged that as much as possible is done by
workers in the junior classifications. To ignore this
principle in planning a newspaper indexing job will result
in the accumulation of a great amount of unworked and
unedited slips, products of the first operation. The
supply of workers sufficiently skilled to put the finishing
touches on an index may be found so meagre that their
working hours must be conserved to the utmost and as
much as possible of the work mechanized and routinized.
It will be found that within the limits of clearly
specified tasks training can be rapid and effective and
high efficiencies quickly produced. The efficiencies
in the main correspond to those of the manual workers
who tighten bolts on an assembly line, not to those of
the master craftsman who can take responsibility for the
whole product.

Those who undertake to do newspaper indexing with
WPA labor without a clear realization of what these
facts mean in practice will be found constantly to cry
out for more and better supervisors when their need is
for more and better analysis of the job.

An indexing project will prove to be a growing
thing. One kind of procedure will break down in prac~
tice, another be substituted for it. Not only will
individual training occur on the job, but the organiza~
tion as a whole will gain in experience. To make this
gain as rapid as possible it is desirable to push some
of the indexing work through all its stages to finished
form as quickly as possible so that the weaknesses and
strengths of the organization show up quickly, and the
qulaity of the finished product can be judged before
too great an investment has been made in what may prove
to be inappropriate routines.



