

Personnel attending session of
January 21, 1939, Washington D.C.

Professor Merle Curti -- National Council for Social Studies.

Dr. Herbert A. Kellar -- American Historical Association

Dr. Stuart A. Rice -- Social Science Research Council

Professor William Lingelbach -- American Council of Learned Societies

Dr. Mortimer Graves -- American Council of Learned Societies

Dr. Daucherty -- American Council of Learned Societies

H.M. Lydenberg -- Director, New York Public Library

Dr. Charles Judd -- National Youth Administration

Robert C. Binkley -- Chairman, Joint Committee on Materials for Research

Dr. Wilfred de St. Aubin -- Project Control

Mr. Harvey Becknell -- Division of Social Research

Mr. Botkin - Federal Writers' Projects

Mr. Vincenzo Petrullo -- Works Progress Administration

Luther H. Evans -- National Director Historical Records Survey

Mr. Corrington Gill -- Assistant Administrator, W.P.A.

Mrs. Florence Kerr -- Assistant Administrator, W.P.A.

Mr. Charles Lawrence, Jr. -- W.P.A. Coordinator of Professional and Statistical Projects, New York City


CONFERENCE ON RELATIONS OF ORGANIZED SCHOLARSHIP WITH W.P.A.

Saturday, Jan 21, 1939
Morning session; 10:00 A.M.

Present:

William Lingelbach -- American Council of Learned Societies
Merle Curti -- National Council for the Social Studies
Herbert A. Kellar -- American Historical Association
Robert C. Binkley -- Joint Committee on Materials for Research
Mortimer Graves -- American Council of Learned Societies
Doctor Daucherty -- American Council of Learned Societies

The chairman explained that Rice, representing the
Social Science Research Council, could not be present until the
afternoon session.

Two memoranda had been distributed: a circular "The
Cultural Program of W.P.A." and a proposed agenda.

Binkley took the chair and explained that the repre~
sentatives of organized scholarship were to devote the morn~
ing to the study of their side of the problem of securing
maximum value from W.P.A. work in the white collar field,
and that in the afternoon officials of W.P.A. would join
them.

The discussion that followed turned first on the prob~
lems that seemed general, structural, within any W.P.A.
operation, regardless of what was to be done with the labor,
and second, on the content of the program.

PART ONE: ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONS
      

In the course of this discussion six points were de~
fined upon which an understanding with W.P.A. would be
desirable. The six points were:

1. Personnel. There must be adecuate information given
to scholars as to the quantity of labor, and its com~
petence-levels.

(a) Some projects require skill that can be tested
by examination. Scholars and W.P.A. adminis~
tration might come to an understanding on the
meaning of W.P.A. labor classifications, and

the adequacy of examinations or other
methods used.

(b) In some cases it is very important that no
one should be assigned to the project with~
out prior interview and acceptance by spon~
sor. The element of prior interview with
      

        sponsor is an essential part of plan for a
project which involves the use of W.P.A.
labor for work with the regular employees
of an institution such as a library, or which
involves contact of W.P.A. labor with the
public under conditions that involve the cred~
it and reputation of an institution, such as
a historical society, or which involves en~
trusting W.P.A. workers with materials or
records of special rarity or value.

2. Coordination of Scholarly with W.P.A. Organization.

The problem was described as that of establishing a
circuit from W.P.A. national organization to nation~
al representatives or organized scholarship, and thence
through the two hierarchies to the meeting of local W.
P.A. administration with scholars on the ground. Var~
ious ways of establishing such a circuit were discussed,
such as:

(a) a series of brief policy pamphlets, cleared
with W.P.A. and circulated among scholars,
or

(b) methods of clearing plans in advance through
W.P.A. and then giving notice to the scho~
larly world through journals, or

(c) some kind of committee structure.

Lingelbach pointed out that there would have to be
official recognition by W.P.A. of such an organization.

The problem of objectives was likewise regarded as a
major one. Before objectives can be popularized, scholars
must be clear in their own minds as to what they want, and
also as to clearing arrangements. Perhaps some help could
be got by showing what has been done in certain localities.

3. Types of Project from Standpoint of Administration.

The different types of project will require different
methods of cooperation. There are at least two classes
of working situations. One may be called the A program,
the other the B program. In the A program the object is
to get personnel with specific competence. This often

involves working within a going organization, such as
library or university department or laboratory. It is
here that the "prior interview before assignment" dis~
cussed above is most necessary.

In the B program the projects are of the engineer~
ing type, and the factory method is used; for example,
intexing the population census records to aid in admin~
istration of social security legislation.

The relation of the scholar to these two types of
projects was discussed. In the A type, or university
project, the university may set up a blanket project
merely vetting the nominal sponsorship of some public
agency in case the university is not tax-supported. But
in the B type the scholar may merely give general advance
advice, have no personal contact vith operations, and
then utilize the finished product when it emerges (Cf.
Cleveland Newspaper Digest and Historical Records Survey
inventories)

Possibly the national arts projects, such as collect~
ing folklore material or interviews with living slaves,
may be another type.

"A" type of project. (Prior interview before assign~
ment usually necessary)

1. Blanket university project: principle of
craft operation; Scholars provide super~
vision and get aid in their research.

2. Projects which involve working within a
going organization. Administrator (as
of historical society) helps with super~
vision, and accomplishes objectives of
his institution.

"B" type of oroject. (scholars give advice, but
W.P.A. administers)

1. The factory type of project, with many
workers of lower level of training doing
work prepared for them by careful job
analysis.

The national project, which can put into
effect a policy that must be nation-wide
to be effective (The Imprints Survey is a
combination of these)

4. Types of Project from the Standpoint of Organized
      

        Scholars' Participation in Planning and Execution.

(a) It seemed that in some cases scholars could
help by working out a type project, which
could then be adapted to variant local con~
ditions (Example: real property inventory)

(b) In other cases it might be that the scholar
organization could help in finding the par~
ticular individuals in the scholarly world
whose advice and interest would be most im~
portant, and in interesting the individual
in the problem.

(c) In some cases the important thing would be
to interpret expertence and evaluate what has
been done in the light of problems of future.

5. Information
      

All were agreed that there should be more ef~
fective clearing of information about development in the
W.P.A. program itself, and in other places. There seemed
to be a need for

(a) A clearing house of information

(b) A circular or information sheet to speed the
flow of information.

6. Publication
      

The publishing industry cannot now take care of
the product of professional scholars because the editions
of scholarly work are too small for commercial profit,
hence scholars go around for subsidy. Principal costs of
publishing in small editions are labor costs. W.P.A.
might utilize relief labor. Quantity of product when fac~
tory system is used with maximum efficiency is so great
that no other way is open than to multiply with relief
labor.

If relief labor multiplies the product by mimeograph
or otherwise, there must be a clear-cut policy regarding
deposit. The Historical Records Survey is a model in this
respect, with its national, regional and local depositories.
Some products will call for deposit according to special
field interests as material on transportation in the lib~
raries that have collections on this subject (as Michigan,
Stanford)

The development of sound policy in W.P.A. is obstruc~
ted by some administrative or legal difficulty. The Gov~
ernment Printing Office claims a monopoly. If local spon~
sor purchases equipment for putting products of W.P.A.
labor into book form the W.P.A. labor can operate the

equipment, but this part of the planning lags. Wasteful~
ness of present situation. W.P.A. should bring out
material that commercial trade will not publish.


W.P.A. should carry a project all the way through;
there is no use in leaving it for someone to publish. It
is wasteful to utilize sponsor contribution as publication
fund.

Kellar feels that Binkley's suggestions are rett
much of an urban program; he would like to fave ae
rural orogram. Two things were suggested: one,
which might be supplementary to the urban program,

PART TWO: THE CONTENT OF THE PROGRAM
      

1. Urban and Rural Program
      

What can be done in regard to the substance?
Kellar feels that Binkley's suggestions are pretty
much of an urban program; he would like to have a
rural program. Two things are suggested: one,
which might be supplementary to the urban program,
is an architectural survey in rural districts.
The American Association of Museums has done things
with famous houses, the National Park Service on
sites, etc., but Kellar wants ordinary houses, barns,
mills, factories. In Virginia Kellar found out some
rather interesting things which in a national survey
would throw much light on our cultural development.
(20-mile strip with one particular type of architec~
ture.) Lydenberg suggests comparing these areas
with Kurath's Linguistic Atlas. The second thing
is that in rural districts there have developed a
very interesting handicraft and inventive ideas
which are not found in the Patent Office. Each com~
munity has developed certain tools and ways of do~
ing things. Why not a national survey of handicraft,
and inventions which are not in the Patent Office?
This connects with the museum type of activity and
the Index of American Design.

2. Library Program
      

(Shows Resources of Southern Libraries). Could
this also be done for the other three parts of coun~
try -- middle West, Pacific Coast and Northeast?

The compiling, editing and issuing in book form
of the national union catalogue is a good job for
W.P.A. It should include Canada. We must mobilize
American holdings for exchange purposes abroad, as
we will have to bargain with the people abroad.

The meeting adjourned at 12:15 for lunch.

Saturday, Jan. 21, 1939

Afternoon session:

Present:

Charles Judd -- National Youth Administration
Wilfred de St. Aubin -- Project Control
William Lingelbach -- American Council of Learned Societies
Herbert A. Kellar -- American Historical Association
Merle Curti -- National Council for the Social Studies
Harvey Becknell -- Division of Social Research
H.M. Lydenberg -- Director New York Public Library
Mr. Botkin -- Federal Writers' Projects
Luther H. Evans -- National Director Historical Records Survey
Stuart A. Rice -- Social Science Research Council
Vincenzo Petrullo -- Works Progress Administration
Doctor Daucherty -- American Council of Learned Societies

Binkley summarized for the representatives of W.P.A.
the points covered in the morning session, directing at~
tention particularly to 1b (prior interviews) and 6 (pub~
lications:)

ST. AUBIN: Mimeographing and distribution of project re~
ports are customary; but setting up projects specifically
for the duplication of material in printing is not done.

BECKNELL: We are not allowed to do printing as parts of
projects. The responsibility for publication is not up
to W.PA.

LYDENBERG: We would earnestly recommend that the W.P.A.
authorities give serious thought to the development of
means of distribution.

LAWRENCE: This publication problem is one of the most ser~
ious things holding up the program of W.P.A. This should
be brought to the attention of the Joint Committee on Print~
ing. We have tried to get it considered and then we have
gone ahead and published the stuff anyway, so that the
work will not be wasted.

LYDENBERG: If you can get an expression of opinion asked
of our Joint Committee on Materials for Research, you can
get our enthusiastic support. But it should be asked for.

LAWRENCE: When W.P.A. was first set up there were no
restrictions on printing, copyright or similar matters.
The sponsors did not know whether they could publish or
not. Now W11 is the report telling what is permissible

in publishing. In New York the mayor purchsed multilith
equipment, and relief labor will be used to operate these
machines to turn out the W.P.A. stuff in editions of a~
bout 200 copies

BECKNELL: On research projects six copies are required
to be sent to the W.P.A. in Washington. Two copies go
to the W.P.A. library, one to L.C., the others go to
national agencies interested in the subject covered.

BINKLEY: The question of what form the final project will
takee reacts all the way back through the various procedures
taken.

ST. AUBIN: The local situation also is bad in connection
with publication.

BOTKIN: The publishers are lookine to the Arts people
for books. In New York City, on the Writers Project, we
have a lithograph press but we cannot print books on it.
How are the publishers going to feel about the extention
of W.P.A. into publication?

BINKLEY: In the research field there is no competition
with publishers. Two hundred copies is the usual edition
and usually subsidy is required. Our problem is to clar~
ify, to rationalize somewhat the mimeograph procedures.

\[Binkley then suggested that further discussion of
the six points on administration be deferred until Mrs.
Kerr and Mr. Gill could be present, and that the repre~
sentatives of W.P.A. inform the scholar group of their
picture of the substance of the program.\]

ST. AUBIN: White collar projects are defined roughly in
to three categories. In the public administration field
we have the administrative tool, the recording of some
physical asset, for use almost entirely for public of~
ficials rather than for public information. (Shade tree
information for the Park Department, etc.) (2) the deal~
ing with old records, primarily to facilitate reference
and sometimes the preservation of these records. (3)
the installation of a more effective system of record
keeping; revision in some cases, or reorganization of
a filing system.

The primary function is the indexing, arranging,
filing, etc. of old records; then the creation of an ad~
ministrative tool; and the installation of a new or re~

vision of an old system to make it more usable. So that
the administrative tool is only one of those fields.

These three are in the urban areas because the re~
cords are there and also the workers. The Division of
Social Research is also interested in this, including
Statistics and Research. We also have the broad field
of engineering services, which I am leaving out right
now. They are tied up with aeoasTyes aving out right
now. They are tied up with deodetic surveys, geologi~
cal surveys, etc. They have set up more and more stand~
ar
        ds which W.P.A. generally follows.

BINKLEY: Is public administration one part only of your
picture, or is that inclusive?

ST. AUBIN: All forms of record projects other than those
under Statistical Review.

BECKNELL: Actually research is done in many cases for
public administration purposes. The difference is that
any project may have one or both objectives: an improved
record for service purposes, and a record for research

        
        purposes. The category of Research, Statistical and Sur~
vey is broken down by subject matter rather than by pur~
pose.

LAWRENCE: Some of this work is not work dealing com~
pletely with records. It may be that it is the establish~
ment of a new record through assembling data from the
field or from other records. Cumulative records from
schools, or various types of educational testing, is
another kind of record which may result. Then we have
production and service projects, which are not in the
nicture, -- projects producing clothes for the needy, etc.

ST. AUBIN: Service projects are almost all record~
creating, but the primary purpose is for service.

BINKLEY: There are then three major divisions: public
administration; research statistical and survey; and
record-creating projects.

JUDD: The most difficult problem we encounter at pre~
sent is to get some knowledge of our young people. We
have no adequate records of them. We started a census
of young people; this was changed to a survey. There
is not any record that can be relied on regarding unem~
ployment of youth, etc. We have no knowledge of their

experience up to this point; we have no understanding
of the youth problem. An important social move could
come about if we had a knowledge of what the situation
is, but we do not have it. CCC camps do keep records.

EVANS: Could local W.P.A. projects give you a city-
wide sample of this type of information?

JUDD: A recent report on people who left school during
1937-1938 in New York State has been done. An attempt
was made to follow these young people up with interviews,
this is a huge task.

BECKNELL: A study of urban youth in six or seven large
cities has been completed in the Division of Social Re~
search. About 40,000 young people were covered.

JUDD: Nothing has been done on the rural areas.


BECKNELL: There are some studies being done on rural
youth surveys.

BINKLEY: This suggests a seventh administrative point.
What about the use of interview technique in connection
with record-producing work?

BECKNELL: A project supported by evidence of public sup~
port can do interviewing. However it has been generally
agreed that during the period of the census-taking, W.P.
A. will not go into interviewing.

JUDD: Doorbell ringing is out. The interview technique
used in New York State produced a lot of very valuable
information, despite the deficiencies of the technique.
Nothing is known about our schools of today or forty
years ago; what was actually done in the school is not
known.

EVANS: My people have gone into the inventorying of
school records. They are usually more poorly kept than
the county and city records, and there are a lot of gaps.
We might make an inventory of records of the institu~
tions of higher learning. We are thinking of doing this.

BINKLEY: In Cleveland we want to know whether there are
enough of the old student record cards left to do any~
thing.


BOTKIN: I can speak mainly for the Folk Lore field. We
deal with unwritten records and collecting oral materials.
Phonographic recordings, and photographic recording of
musical instruments, etc. We use interview method also.
We also have the problem of storing and duplicating mater~
ial. The problem of classification and indexing of this
material has to be met. Ours is chiefly a rural field.
It is not the conventional folk lore type, but more of
the contemporary folk lore. There is poor supervision
in the rural areas.

KELLAR: Do you try to work through the schools, churches
etc.?


BOTKIN:: We have tried, but not so good. We do use NYA
recreation units. The Arts project is doing the Index
to American Design. The Guide books do not use all the
material they gather, and we have a file of discarded
material kept. Socio-ethic studies are also being made
by Federal Writers, but the meterial is much too bulky
for complete publication.

EVANS: Our basic job is to make an inventory of the
public archives in this country. We can analyze types
of items found in those records, their sources, etc.
You have to know your different procedures and functions
of government so that you can recognize when records are
mixed up in a series. We now make a complete statement
of the organization and functions of units of government,
not only for the present time but since the beginning of
government in this country. We started out with the i~
dea that we were not going to do any research, for ob~
vious reasons, but ve are now training our people to
handle the research type of work. As time goes on we
may be able to do a little bit more along research lines.

BINKLEY: Lydenberg, having seen this picture of the
work W.P.A. is doing, and seen some of the problems
defined, what strikes you as the area or field or type
of thing we ought to help with, and where can they best
help us?

LYDENBERG: In such work as the Historical Records Sur~
vey. As these results are obtained they should be put
down in material form at fitting times and be put at the
command of interested users by proper distribution at
strategic points.

BINKLEY: The public library should certainly be served
by this program.

St. AUBIN: The various library projects are closely tied
in with libraries themselves through the Library Consul~
tant.

LYDENBERG: In the Imprints Survey the library gives and
receives service. I hope a set amount of the tangible
results of these efforts to get benefit from enforced and
directed public employment of white-collar people will
be preserved, so that in the future we will have some
knowledge of what has been done. There is where the Joint
Committee on Materials for Research comes in very emphati~
cally. It has a direct responsibility to urge the con~
sideration of this problem so that the essential results
of this form of activity may be preserved for the next
generation. Your tools are for present day use, but the
results of the other things ought to be distributed prop~
erly.

BINKLEY: This brings us back to point 6 -- publication.
From the library standpoint we are back to the question
of what can be done to bring about a reconsideration in
the Joint Committee on Printing or the Government Print~
ing Office of that rule which closes the door... That
is a critical and crucial matter. It has been suggested
that our Joint Committee on Materials for Research would
be willing to go before the Joint Committee on Printing
or to do whatever is appropriate to break through that
blockade.

ST. AUBIN: We do not give favorable consideration to
the printing of reports as such. There is some duplica~
tion, but it is regarded as the obligation of the spon~
sor as an evidence of interest, and because of the
Government Printing Office ruling. When projects are
submitted where publication is necessary, some local
body must take care of the publication. Other projects
can have the products mimeographed.

EVANS: There is an old ruling about multigraphing, etc.

BINKLEY: The effect of this rule is that the results are
less valuable because only a little bit of it can be
printed.

EVANS: The work of a project will be much more better
organized, of higher quality, and the morale of the work~
ers will be better, if they know they are working with
the publication objective.

RICE: This problem of printing comss up in the whole
government service. There are never enough funds to
print. The thing that surprises me a little is the
control of the Government Printing Office over the W.~
P.A. projects.

EVANS: It is the General Accounting Office. But the
Joint Committee on Printing does control emergency field
printing.

BINKLEY: Meanwhile we are hampered because the non-
labor costs are too high. Yet here is a huge non-lab~
or cost oressing down all the time.

LAWRENCE: We have many people in New York who know
printing, who could be used to reproduce the materials.

LYDENBERG: Would it be fair to let me move as the ex~
pression of opinion of this organization that the JCMR
venture to recommend to the W.P.A. administration that
for the purposes of research it take care to see that an
annual report of its activities is rendered to the proper
government authorities, and that it endeavor to secure
from the proper government authorities authorization to
print and distribute, either through ordinary trade chan~
nels or through some of the forms of near-printing, such
results of its investigation as in the view of a proper
committee appointed ad hoc may be judged worthy of dis~
tribution for those who are interested in research. If
the W.P.A. made a proper accounting, the next genera~
tion could see that such and such activity had been car~
ried on. Results that are worthy of publication can be
held up to the proper authorities as indications of the
type of material turned out, and will have their bene~
fits extended in material fashion if they are issued
adequately for the prospective students and users.

BINKLEY: My thought on that is that while it would be
important for certain of the W.P.A. products, it would
apply to a narrow part of the program. For most of our
program we must know in advance and plan in advance what
the product will be. This is not true of craft research,
but it is true of factory product. We should not go in~
to projects of the factory scale unless we know that the
whole discipline will be adequate to give a specific re~
sult carried to an appropriate form, and if the appropri~
ate form is an edition of two hundred copies of a set of
books, the project must produce that too. In the setting
up of a job, if you are going to use relief labor to car~

ry it to book form, that labor should be in the picture
from the beginning.

BECKNELL: In many parts of the country there are no
trained people to do this work. Will that not inter~
fere with our setting projects?

BINKLEY: You can train unskilled people to do multi~
graphing. The thing that holds back the full develop~
ment of this is a little set of regulations that appear
accidentally in the program. Just exactly what action
is necessary to get over this hurdle?

EVANS: Someone over in Procedures can tell you that.

LAWRENCE: Sponsors do not have funds for publication.
They are in the same position as the federal government.

\[Mrs. Kerr and Mr. Gill entered.\]

BINKLEY: We have heard what W.P.A. is doing. Now let
us ask this question: What, from W.P.A's angle, would
you like to have emerge as a form of cooperation and as
a field of cooperation, if the groups that are in touch
with the various learned societies, are to help? What
can we offer and how can it best be done?

BECKNELL: At a conference of state and regional coordin~
ators, four points developed as essential for a good pro~
gram in the research field:

(1) A knowledge of the character and size of our
white-collar load, and of the qualifications
of workers.

(2) More knowledge of the type of vast projects
and the results obtained therefrom.

(3) Knowledge of possible fields of project activity;
Where are the gaps and how to be filled.

(4) Knowledge of possible sponsorship of projects
of this type.

BINKLEY: Here is our list: (reads 7 points including
interview) The six (or seven) points that emerged in our
discussion fit right in with Becknell's four points.

PETRULLO: Let us add consideration of new techniques
which may have been developed or will be developed. And
also the possibility of getting the academic people in
any particular field to get together and map out good
projects. It is at present impossible to coordinate the
various archaeological projects in the states so that
they contribute to the general field of archaeology.

BINKLEY: This is the Social Science Research Council
Problem.

KELLAR: Would it be possible to make inquiry of the
various sciences as to just what they want done?


EVANS: If in addressing this question to the academic
groups you emphasize the relief and mass labor aspect,
they are going to take away a lot of problems they think
we cannot solve with relief people. Let them give us
the full list and then let us decide whether we can
tackle their problems.

KELLAR: That is better.

BINKLEY: Often our work results in bringing information
up to a higher level of accessibility, but not to bring
it to a sharp point of finish. I think if we show them
actual work being done, and then ask them what in their
own field they want done, we can put the idea over. The
Index to Research Projects would be a bad place to draw
conclusions as to just what the W.P.A. can do.

ST. AUBIN: Would it not be worthwhile to suggest to mem~
bers of societies that they become acquainted with actual
projects in operations? They would see the possibilities
to a much greater degree.

PETRULLO: Under the present regulations the project has
to be sponsored by a public institution. So most of the
private institutions are handicapped, even though they
could give good supervision to the projects.

BINKLEY: If we are restricted by inappropriate rules on
sponsorship, this program will bog down very quickly.
The thing we are interested in does not correspond to
the particular distribution of function in government.
But if we take the idea that public sponsorship may be
nominal we can go ahead. If a state project is to be
operated by the University of Chicago, but must be spon~
sored by the State College, I think it could be to get
nominal sponsorship.

RICE: Isn't it already so nominal that it fails to serve
its purpose?

KERR: The co-sponsor is become increasingly important.
He may be private. I know that the named sponsor often
knows very little about the actual operation of projects.
In many cases we would not have had projects at all if
it were not for nominal sponsorship. In other words
this program has burst the bonds of regular government
function. I think that so far the President is not will~

ing to give up the idea of sponsorship. It is a safe~
guard, an indication that the public wants it.

JUDD: At a conference of regional planning boards, it
was proposed to launch a device of reporting on the re~
search programs carried on by state agencies in the states.
One purpose is to bring the research people and planning
boards into closer relationship. This might be used here
to get proper sponsorship. The planning boards could
get advice from the states.

ST. AUBIN: In general the problem of sponsorship has
been solved. A public agency is usually available and
actual technical supervision can come from another in~
terested institution. Any general research program in
a place can be sponsored by a public agency in the place.
Jurisdiction is not entirely solved, but it is so gener~
al in the field of research that it does not often be~
come a problem.

JUDD: Don't you have to make the city aware of the val~
ue of this research? Why not use these planning boards
for this?

LAWRENCE: There are very few good projects that are
going begrine for spomsorship.

BINKLEY: I am convinced that when the university facul~
ties get interested there will be no difficulty in spon~
sorship.

BECKNELL: At our conference it was not a problem of
sponsorship, but of getting the people who know the prob~
lems to help us in planning. I think that the develop~
ment of these programs is going to have to be on the basis
of fields of activity.

LAWRENCE: The field of education will be different from
that in public health. Perhaps the Joint Committee can
fill in programs in various fields which the Committee
might set up. In New York City in a given field -- edu~
cation, for instance, -- we have taken our sponsoring
agencies and listed them. Then we list the types of
activities possible in a W.P.A. program in that field.

BINKLEY: The JC is now only one of many agencies inter~
ested in W.P.A. Does W.P.A. want cooperation from
these bodies? If so, how can it best be organized among
our bodies and in W.P.A.? Where in the program is co~
operation wanted?

KERR: I think you know how enthusiastically I am in ac~
cord with such a conference of this kind. It has the
nature of a second wind. We are beginning a second and
much more fruitful phase of the whole works program. As
for the necessity of conferring with each other there
can be no room for doubt. I think anything we can do
even in the realm of long time planning should be under~
taken at once. We are stopping now to take stock and
in the light of that to do better in the future, so
that a review of past functions is very vital. I like
to have our planning done in bigger units and longer in
point of time. I like to see the relationship of smal~
ler activities to the larger field better worked out.
I would like to have regional thinking in some fields.

GILL: I second everything Mrs. Kerr has said. I think
in the past the research program with local projects has
been very spotty. I am wondering if we could not local~
ize what we have tried to do from time to time -- such
things as the coordinating committee of three years ago --
of bringing in people from time to time who were tremen~
dously interested in the whole program in general. You
get a fresh start in that way. Can that be done on a
regional basis and also for local situations? In many
ways the first coordinating committee carried back in~
to their field a knowledge of the program and how it
could be adapted to their needs. They should be stand~
ing committees with people who had taken time to be
helpful. Could we not utilize people in those groups
as local advisors without administrative responsibilities?

BINKLEY: Your point looks to the scholars in the dis~
trict as the principal people involved.

GILL: Local and district.

RICE: The problem, I think, is finding the people some~
how who will do the work, either on a pay basis or vol~
untarily. I talked this thing over with Young and Crane
at the SSRC. Our committee did not do anything. But
Young said "Just what is it you want; do you want an in~
vestigator or a committee, etc." How do you get the
people with time and ability to spend the time working
out a program? How shall we find these holes and plan
how to fill them?

LINGELBACH: The committee should know what its relation~
ship should be to the W.P.A. generally. There is no
use in working along a line that will have no results.
I think the committee will function if it knows it is
definitely in cooperation with the right group.

EVANS: My experience is that the way to get help from
the right people is to go to them with the problems.
In order for them to solve the problems they have to
know the field of work. The important thing is to give
them the background of our work and let them apply their
background to the solution of the problem. W.P.A.
should take the step of going to these people and get~
ting from them the benefit of their experience. I don't
think a committee could be set up which would come tO W.~
P.A. and tell us what to do. There must be a number
of points of contact. Sometimes people don't know where
to go in W.P.A. to put their ideas over.

LINGELBACH: Wouldn't it be an advisory body of experts
such as the government has?

EVANS: Are you going to send a problem through some
standard channel, such as the JC, or are you going to
have certain direct contacts with various groups for
particular tyoes of problems? My experience is that
when I have a problem I go various places with it.

LAWRENCE: In New York City we have found that what
you said is necessary. We have to ask our sponsors to
plan projects, but we make little provision for planning
our own program.

KERR: Ideally the people who have worked longest in
these research fields should be the leaders, and W.P.~
A. should come in behind with the workers and the money.
But we don't seem to work in this way.

LINGELBACH: I think it would be a great assistance to
have a clearing committee of scholars. We could set up
a committee whose advice would be a great value to W.P.~
A.

EVANS: You can have these committees and also have special
contacts for special problems.

ST. AUBIN: Is it not two problems really? You would
have one group explaining to the societies some of the
things we are trying to do and asking their help; and our
people could go into the states and get more help.

PETRULLO: The W.P.A. is a huge research organization
and yet I don't know even a pamphlet we have put out
such as any Foundation has, to describe its research pro~
gram. We have no such thing to circulate to the research

people.

GILL: We have out out the Index to Research Projects.

RICE: W.P.A. has manuals for individual types of pro~
jects.

BINKLEY: The specific problems come up with small units.
We could help in specific problems.

GILL: The various societies could give a statement of the
research program and in some way work in the idea that they
will give help when requested.

KELLAR: There is a great deal to be gained by having a
general committee to survey the whole field. You can
have special committees for special fields, but there
should be a general program with a general committee.
The general committee can appoint out the people in lo~
cal fields for particular help, but you should have a
general committee.

BINKLEY: Do we want these various committees, and how
should they be tied in with W.P.A. at the top and with
people at the bottom?

RICE: Would it be possible for the Joint Committee and
the National Research Council to appoint a consultative
committee, get funds to have them get together and map
out a general program, and propose sub-committees for
special things?

BINKLEY: It would be a possibility. We would move from
between broad and particular problems of analysis. We
need a broad statement of what can be done which will
direct attention of individual scholars to the broad pro~
gram. Then we want a kind of continuous contact, and
that is where the function of suggesting or designating
specific people can take place. Is there anything inter~
mediate between those two things?

BOTKIN: There is a proposal for a central research bur~
eau in the government which would answer many of the
questions. It is a central research bureau which will
act as clearing house for all research -- private and pub~
lic through the country. It will index everything that
has been done in every field of research.

BINKLEY: I am suspicious of that, because it would have
to be set up in terms of past tradition of research and
we are looking for a new thinking on a new problem.

BOTKIN: If something is not done to indicate public ap~
proval of the work of the Arts Projects we will not have
any people to give you to work with.

KERR: If you are asking me if the program is going on,
I believe fully and completely the program is going on.
I have every confidence in this program and we must prove
its worth to the country. I don't feel any apprehen~
sion about the continuance of these projects. Another
answer is that whether or not we continue, we would still
do as we are doing now. We would still make plans and
contacts.

BINKLEY: We are going to need a point of contact with
your organization (W.P.A.) for any further develop~
ment here. It must be something simple; it will be nec~
essary that somebody can say "Yes" or "No" to a plan
at a given state of formation. What can you do in your
organization to establish a point for liason? We can
then hammer out a system. We must have contact at the
stage of policy.

GILL: Mrs. Kerr and I agree to accent our responsibility.
In a week or ten days we ean give you an answer. The
need for such a thing is clear. You want an individual
through whom W.P.A. research policies can be contacted.

BINKLEY: Yes, then we can ficure out a way of clearing
the channel in our organization.

RICE: I think that on both sides here there is an un~
precedented opportunity to effect vitally the whole fu~
ture of social science in the United States. It is a
major proposition here.

BINKLEY: If we should decide that these initiatives
should come together as an advisory committee to W.P.A.
would you, Mrs. Kerr, be willing to examine that as a
basis Of cooperation?

KERR: Yes.

Mr. Gill and Mrs. Kerr then left the meeting.

BINKLEY: Well, what shall we do? This job is so much
bigger than the Joint Committee that I think we must not
think of it as a Joint Committee activity merely.

RICE: I think the essential problem is to find the men
with ability and interest who have the time to do this
job; men who can represent the academic groups. Two
or three years ago we had two or three goodmen but we
could not get response from the social science side.
There should be a long session held by some selected
people who could meet for a week and work something out.

PETRULLO: W.P.A. can offer not only workers but an op~
portunity. It is a job placement idea. We have the ob~
stacle of people thinking research cannot be done with
W.P.A. and of people asking what they are going to get
out of it.

RICE: But you need some general planning within the var~
ious fields.
BINKLEY: If we think a session is the thing, I think it
can be arranged. Lingelbach emphasizes the creation of
an advisory board with some kind of semi-official status
in W.P.A. Rice suggests the importance of getting
some coordinated thinking in a session. Someone has
proposed the use of a contact man or executive official
of some kind.

JUDD: I am satisfied that we have to lean out to bring
together some people who are not yet together. You had
specialists in various fields centralizing themselves
in national organizations in that field. That proved
to be not satisfactory, so Councils became established.
Somehow the Councils have to get together. The government
started out with a whole scattered series of undertakings
and now wants to centralize and coordinate them. We
recommended that there be a smaller coordinating council
created inside the federal government. It seems to me
you want focussing of the technical people and a focus~
sing of W.P.A. I feel that your coordinating commit~
tee ought to recognize all the Councils somehow. There
is a gradual focussing on both sides that will ultimate~
ly coordinate. It should include W.P.A. and the Coun~ 
cils (who should do the centralizing for their own par~
ticular organizations). I would like to see the process
of focussing rather than centralizing. I don't believe
the ordinary academic man understands at all what is
going on in other research agencies. The universities
spend $50,000,000 a year; industry spends $100,000,000
in their research laboratories; nobody knows about ec~
onomic research; the government spent in 1937 $120,000,~
000 on research. The academic man thinks he is the cen~

ter of research, but he is not. The interesting thing
is that all these agencies are in competition. They
are in competition for personnel. Scattered efforts at
coordination will not be successful. In the social
sciences there is no coordination. The natural sciences
are much better organized.

RICE: I think Binkley has made a contribution which
has not been brought out. Binkley has pointed out and
shown that you can put certain essential parts of the
whole research structure on a mass production basis, not
inthe finishing touches but in the mass part. There is
a difference between interpreting research and implement~
ing it.

BECKWELL: The W.P.A. in the state offices now can
handle the thing if you can set it up. They know much
more about what they are doing now.

KELLAR: I would like to suggest that a committee of three
be designated to go ahead and formulate a committee.
Binkley, Lingelbach and Rice. I think there should be
a representative of this committee from each of the lead~
ing social sciences, someone who will really work. Have
a full-time secretary for the committee, and funds to
meet several times a year. Let Binkley head it.

\[Meeting adjourned\]


