

MEMORANDUM ON A UNION CATALOG OF THE PHILADELPHIA
LIBRARIES

New developments in photographic equipment undertaken by the
Eastman Kodak Company and its subsidiary, the Recordak Corporation
present possibilities in the formation of of a union catalog which
deserve serious consideration. By the use of this equipment, a
film copy can be made of the library cards of the various libraries
to be included in the union catalog. This film copy, which would
temporarily fulfill the functions of a union cataLog, could be
used for reproducing positive prints for a card union catalog.

Making Film Copies:

Filn copies of library card catalogs, in alphabetical order,
could be made by means of the Recordak machine, produced by the
Recordak Corporation, 350 Madison Avenue, New York City. The
cards, removed from the cabinets and replaced in them by a helper,
could be fed into this machine by cheap labor, with a little
practice, at an average rate of 80 to 100 per minute. I am cer~
tain feeding into a Recordak can be done considerably faster than
into a Dexigraph. I used the Recordak for reproducing the trans~
cripts of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration code hearings.
A total of 136,000 pages of transcripts, size 8½ x 11 inches, mostly
in thin onion-skin paper, and including a large amount of bound
pamphlet material and other material difficult to handle, was run
through in twelve days.

The Recordak machine advisable for library cards would be one
reproducing in 16 to 1 diameters. When film copies produced by
machine are read by means of a reading device, developed by
the Recordak Corporation, an image one and one half times the size
of the original is projected onto a plate. In my opinion this
projection is more legible than the original. A sample run of
film thus produced is in my possession and is available for exhibit.

A film having an acetate base, aand hence, it is believed,
permanent and non—inflammable, which is 16 mm. width, is used. The
cost of this film, including its development, is $5.50 per 200
feet. A two hundred foot roll of film will reproduce 10,700
cards, or approximately 20 cards for 1¢.

Exclusive of film cost is the machine rental, which is $30.00
per month, plus the cost of moving the machine from library to
library. Labor costs would be slight.

If the union catalog of the libraries of the Philadelphia
area included the University of Pennsylvania Library and the re~
lated libraries, the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, the
Library Company of Philadelphia and its Ridgewar Branch,
American Philosophical Society, the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia, the Franklin Institute, and the Libraries of Bryn
Mawr, Haverford, and Swarthmore, a total, perhaps, of two and a
half to three million cards would have to be reproduced. The

total cost of film for this reproduction would not exceed $1,500.
Machine rental should not exceed $100, including the cost of trans~
porting the machine from library to library.

A film copy placed in a central depository like the University
of Pennsylvania Library would temporarily serve the purposes of a
union catalog; it would occupy little space and would be convenient
to use, but more important, it would be a practical step, which
could be taken immediately and with little expense, toward the crea~
tion of a union card catalog.

Making Positive Prints:

The Eastman Kodak Company has developed the equipment for
reproducing positive prints from the master film negative produced
by the Recordak at a cost which is unquestionably the lowest for
producing positive (black on white) copies of library cards. Com~
parable figures obtainable with a Dexigraph relate to negative
(white on black) copies; positive copies are almost twice as high
as negative. In large quantities, such as would be required for
a union catalog of the Philadelphia libraries, the cost per card,
it is almost certain, would not exceed 1½¢, and might be as low as
1¢. The positive prints could be produced with the utmost ex~
pedition and accuracy by the process. As many prints could be
made from the master negative as would be desired. The total cost
of the actual manufacture of 3,000,000 cards should not exceed
$45,000, and would probably be nearer $35,000.

Once the positive prints have been made, a series of brief
symbols, one for each library which is to be included in the union
catalog, could be stamped by cheap labor on the margin of the
cards. Thereafter the cards would be ready for assembling.

Respectfully submitted,

T.R. Schellenberg, Executive
Secretary

Joint Committee on Materials for
Research of the
Amerioan Council of Learned Societies
and the
Social Science Research Council.

Washington, D.C., October, 13, 1934.


