


        February 5, 1938
      


        
          
        
      

1. A newspaper index must give enough information about each
item indexed to permit the consultant to decide whether or not he wants to
go to the file. The information given must be an absolute minimum for
purpose.

2. Since the consultant is assumed to use the file whenever
he uses the index, provisions for immediate or ultimate micro-copying of
the file should be a part of the plan.

3. The procedure used in making the New York Times Index cannot
be followed in W.P.A. Their procedure involves the use of several copies
of the newspaper, which are marked for indexing and are distributed among
specialists who are highly skilled in making index entries for different
classes of news. In W.P.A. we have only one file; we cannot mark it;
we must obtain accuracy without turning over the pages too often, as we
cannot run through it again and again with successive specialists. Our
procedure must therefore be adapted to circumstances.

4. The first decision to be made in an index is what classes of
items are to be indexed and what ones are to be excluded. Analysis of
the Cleveland newspapers has indicated that with fair consistency over 60%
of a newspaper is advertising: about 8% is state news; about 3% foreign
news; and a little over 10% is local news. These proportions, constant
for the later nineteenth century, may shift somewhat in the more recent
period.

The New York Times Index devotes half its space to marriage and
death notices. This is a much larger proportion of the Index than these
notices occupy in the newspaper itself, but the Times finds that a great
many of their inquiries turn on this information. One major policy deci~
sion that must be made is whether to attempt to carry under the general
classification of "Death" all death notices, and under "Marriage" all
marriage notices, classifying them under both the name of bride and groom.

A sweeping decision might well eliminate all advertising, unless
an exception is made for some particuler class of advertising, or the
advertising is indexed by name of advertiser for, say, two days a year,-
January 1 and July 1. Thie procedure might be advisable for any year in
which there is no directory of business firms available.

5. National news as news ought not to be covered. The feature 
columns, as they become important in the more recent period, will give
      
rise to difficult decisions. Syndicated feature columns perhaps should
      
be treated differently, from feature columns written for the locality only. 

All local news and all editorials, on whatever subject, should
      
certainly be taken. The editorials can be identified with the symbol . 
There ie a strong argument for including out-of-town local news, especially 
that which comes from the state or from the West.

Another big problem is lists of names. The indexers have no
way of distinguishing in an isolated case between an important name and an
unimportant name, but neither can they list and alphabetize the names of
all the members of all the committees that participated in organizing the
Elks' picnic. Some arbitrary rule will be necessary. Possibly something
like this will work: take no more than five names per column of story,
and on short stories no more than one name per inch of column. We made
an experiment in Cleveland in taking every proper name mentioned and found
the result was overwhelming, The main thing is that enforcible rules
must be laid down as to what is to be indexed and what is not to be indexed.

6. When it has been decided what parts of the file are to be
indexed, accuracy and uniformity of treatment must be guaranteed. How is
this to be done? The work might be organized in two steps: (a) The work~
er who has the newspaper before him must write on a slip of paper for every
story the who, where, what of the atory, very briefly and including all
indexable proper names. The procedure for this was well worked out in the
Cleveland Newspaper Digest project and could be followed here, except
that the Cleveland project included a procedure for taking quotations which
would not be followed here in indexing. (b) The reference line must be
checked by someone who takes the slips produced by a worker in one day
and checks them for consistency, accuracy and fullness. The accuracy of
the worker's abstract must be checked by a sampling process. The worker's
abstract and reference line should occupy the lower two-thirds of the slip;
the upper one-third should be left free for the indexer.

These slips, as they are completed by the person working with
the newspaper file and checked for accuracy, should pass into the hands
of on indexing department, where the index must be normalized. At this
second stage, the indexer, working with the slips of paper, must do three
things: (a) decide upon a subject classification; (b) write the brief
entry which will actually appear in the index, writing it in the style of
the Times Index; (c) underline in colored pencil the proper names that are
to be carricd in the index. It is at this stage that the index is made or
lost; it is here that the standard of uniformity and consistency in the
treatment of topical heads must be enforced.

Needless to say, an approved list of subject heads must de used.
Old volumes of the Times Index can provide some of these, and the results
of the work of the Cleveland Newspaper Digest can be made available. No
subject entry can be invented on the spur of the moment by someone who
does not have the responsibility for relating that subject entry to all
other subject entries.

7. The next stage is a clerical one that requires accuracy but

        less knowledge. The slip, 
        
      

        the indexer, has become a 
        parate slips must be made
for each proper name entry that has been approved by the indexer, for the 
final product will alphabetize in one alphabet proper names and subject
entries.

8. When the clerks have made the additional slips, each of which
must carry not only the proper names but the reference line and the short
description entry, the alphabetical filing must take place. The proper
name cards should all be filed first, while the subject cards are gathered
in a separate alphabet. Then a final review of the subject cards thus
filed alphabetically should be made, in the course of which general cross
references will be filled in, as "Transportation, see also Railroads,"
or "Petroleum, see Oil," "Verses, see Poetry," etc. Someone who understands
cross reference work must organize this part of the index.

9. When the subject index with its cross reference slips and the
proper name slips stands in two complete alphabets, it can be interfiled
and the index is ready for typing.

10. The last stage is the typing and proofreading. If the pro~
ject permits it, it is probably desirable to mimeograph or otherwise mul~
tiply the index. But if this cannot be provided for, at least a first
copy and two good carbons should be made, with a strong black ribbon, con~
stantly fresh, being used on the first copy. The first copy can then be
micro-copied, so that anyone obtaining a copy of the original newspaper
file on film can also obtain a copy of the index on film. The three paper
copies can be bound.

Unless the index is finally carried to typescript pages, it
will be difficult to control the quality and accuracy of the work. Faults
will show up very quickly on pages which would bury themselves if the index
were left on cards.


11. In training the personnel that is to make the entries from
the workers' abstracts, some extra copies of the Cleveland Newspaper Di~
gest could be used. This would give the workers an idea of condensation
and the system of subject entries. They would have to reduce every item
to the four-to-six words that constitute a Times Index entry.


